[[page 1]]
A Guide to Preventing
Sexual Violence
and Harassment in
Field Placements:
For graduate students, graduate programs, and all who want to prevent violence
care.berkeley.edu / (510) 642-1988

[[page 2]]
This guide offers guidance for all research and
professional activities conducted outside the UC
Berkeley campus, including, but not limited to
field courses and placements, clinical settings, and
internships. This field guide is intended to expand illness
and injury prevention in field-placements to include
prevention of sexual harassment and violence, stalking,
relationship violence, and retaliation protection against
retaliation for reporting.

[[page 3]]
1 | A Guide to Preventing Sexual Violence and Harassment in Field Placement
Table of Contents
Introduction to field research and sexual harassment prevention ....................................................... 3
Structuring field placements for safer and respectful experiences .................................................... 7
Preparing research team members for field placement ........................................................................... 11
Prevention is possible ............................................................................................................................................... 15
Supporting a team member impacted by sexual harassment in the field ........................................ 19
After the field placement has ended .................................................................................................................. 23
>>>>>

[[page 4]]
2 | A Guide to Preventing Sexual Violence and Harassment in Field Placement
Introduction to field
research and sexual
harassment prevention
PART 1:

[[page 5]]
3 | A Guide to Preventing Sexual Violence and Harassment in Field Placement
The "field" may consist of off-campus work, internships, educational trips, professional
conferences, data collection, expeditions, living at sea, visiting a local farm or garden,
urban or rural environments, hospitals, corporate settings, as well as domestic and
international travel. Placements can vary in duration from minutes to years. Field work
offers high-impact research and professional opportunities, and can also offer unique
challenges to preventing and addressing sexual violence and sexual harassment. While
behaviors such as sexual harassment are pervasive1, it is important to be attentive to
other harmful behaviors such as sexual assault, stalking, and relationship violence.
In remote settings, graduate and professional students rely heavily on team members,
principal investigators and supervisors for resources such as communication devices,
transportation, food, and potentially emergency support. Participants may have limited
access to personal, close support systems outside of their colleagues. Because of
this dependence, if one of those team members is bullying, harassing, or perpetrating
violence, the targeted individuals have fewer avenues for safety and support.
This guide is useful for graduate and professional students,
postdoctoral scholars, staff supporting student placements,
faculty members and researchers leading research teams,
faculty equity advisors, and all involved in creating safe,
welcoming environments for scholarly activities that take
place "in the field with". Although the focus of this guide is
graduate and professional students, many of the strategies
discussed can be applied to undergraduate placements as
well. The guide also has information for anyone who has
been impacted by sexual violence, stalking, dating/domestic
violence and/or sexual harassment during a field placement.
+
>>>>>

[[page 6]]
4 | A Guide to Preventing Sexual Violence and Harassment in Field Placement
Ensuring the safety and belonging of every team member is crucial to sexual
harassment prevention, and a necessary part of a successful field experience.
Survivors, as well as individuals supporting survivors, can connect with the
PATH to Care Center or the other confidential resources listed on the Where
to Get Support Quick Guides for students and employees. Confidential support
from the PATH to Care Center can be accessed during remote field placements
and learning, by calling our 24/7 Care Line at (510) 643-2005 or contacting our
office via email (pathtocare@berkeley.edu).
1 Flaherty, C. (2014, August 13). Researchers react to study about sexual harassment of scientists in the field. Retrieved November 05, 2020, from
https://www.insidehighered.com/news/2014/08/13/researchers-react-study-about-sexual-harassment-scientists-field

[[page 7]]
5 | A Guide to Preventing Sexual Violence and Harassment in Field Placement
Structuring field
placements for
safer and respectful
experiences
PART 2:

[[page 8]]
6 | A Guide to Preventing Sexual Violence and Harassment in Field Placement
>>>>>
Incorporate existing policies, codes of conduct, and requirements related
to sexual harassment, violence, and discrimination into the field safety plan.
Including:
* Your department's field safety plan and codes of conduct
* Professional organization and field safety standards, as well as required prevention
and intervention messaging and training
* Stay updated with what policies are required by the University
* Student Code of Conduct
* UC SVSH Policy
* UC Berkeley's Nondiscrimination Policy
* Students Rights Under Title IX and University of California Policy
Request the field site's policies and procedures for sexual harassment, violence,
discrimination, and diversity. Consider how well the field site or company's policies align
with those of UC Berkeley, UC systemwide and/or local, state and federal law.
Add addendums to Memorandum of Understandings (MOU) with organizations,
companies, and field work sites to align with prohibited behaviors in the UC SVSH
Policy, as well as the equity, inclusion, and prevention strategies developed by and
for your department or program. The addendum ensures that both students and the
internship sites are aware of the commitment being made to address sexual violence.
Please contact the PATH to Care Center for a sample MOU template.
This section offers strategies for departments and programs
to consider before students go into the field. Research shows
increased risks of harm when there are vague or nonexistent
rules governing appropriate workplace and campus behavior.
While the following information primarily addresses field
sites, this can be adapted for a variety of internships and off-
campus work arrangements.

[[page 9]]
7 | A Guide to Preventing Sexual Violence and Harassment in Field Placement
2 Basow, Susan A. 2011. "Evaluation of Female Leaders: Stereotypes, Prejudice, and Discrimination in the Workplace." In Women as Transformational Leaders:
From Grassroots to Global Interests: Cultural and Organizational Stereotypes, Prejudice, and Discrimination, edited by Michele A. Paludi and Breena E.
Coates, 51-67. Santa Barbara, CA: Praeger.
3 Cassell, Macgorine A. 2011. "Bullying in Academe: Prevalent, Significant, and Incessant." Contemporary Issues in Education Research 4 (5): 33-44.
4 Meyers, Maureen, Tony Boudreax, Stephen Carmody, Victoria Dekle, Elizabeth Horton, and Alice Wright. 2015. "Preliminary Results of the SEAC Sexual
Harassment Survey." Horizon and Tradition: The Newsletter of the Southeastern Archaeological Conference 57 (1): 19-35.
5 Mitchell, Natasha A., and Jaronda J. Miller. 2011. "The Unwritten Rules of the Academy: A Balancing Act for Women of Color." In Women of Color in Higher
Education: Changing Directions and New Perspectives, edited by Gaetane Jean-Marie and Brenda Lloyd-Jones, ̈ 193-218. Bingley, UK: Emerald Group
Publishing Limited.
The University of California, in accordance with applicable Federal and State law and University policy, does not discriminate on the basis of race, color,
national origin, religion, sex, gender identity, pregnancy, physical or mental disability, medical condition (cancer related or genetic characteristics), ancestry,
marital status, age, sexual orientation, citizenship, or service in the uniformed services. The University of California also prohibits sexual harassment. This
nondiscrimination policy covers admission, access, and treatment in University programs and activities.
Determine eligibility to become a placement site by using this checklist of
requirements that emphasize sexual harassment prevention:
* Organization requires placement supervisors and all employees to undergo sexual
harassment prevention training, and has mechanisms to ensure compliance of this
requirement.
* Organization has a policy prohibiting sexual harassment, including a protection
against retaliation for reporting.
* Organization has a mechanism for addressing harm without adverse consequences
to the graduate or professional student's educational opportunities.
Develop a departmental exit or re-location strategy, for situations where a student is
unsafe at a site/placement, that does not impact the student's educational opportunity,
course credit, or funding.
Implement a practice of regularly checking in with students and their field supervisors
during the placement; discuss the organizational climate and safety with each of them
during these check-in meetings.

[[page 10]]
8 | A Guide to Preventing Sexual Violence and Harassment in Field Placement
Preparing research
team members for
field placement
PART 3:

[[page 11]]
9 | A Guide to Preventing Sexual Violence and Harassment in Field Placement
Comprehensive education for all. Provide each team member going out into the
field with prevention and response education that addresses the following topics: the
impact of sexual harassment and violence, definitions of sexual harassment and violence
(SVSH), resources for support healthy relationships and communication, power and
privilege, the use of alcohol and drugs in perpetrating sexual violence, and strategies for
being an active bystander and fostering a respectful community while in the field. These
educational opportunities are most effective when led by trusted peers; however, it is
important to consult experts in the development of the content. Please contact the
PATH to Care Center to schedule a consultation.
Access to communication. Ensure that all team members have access to reliable
means of communication, such as Wi-Fi and/or satellite phone(s) with on-campus
contacts programmed into the device. These on-campus contacts should include
the PATH to Care Center's 24/7 CARE Line, Faculty Equity Advisor and Grad Students
Advisors (GSAOs) and/or the person(s) responsible for coordinating site placements,
and the Office for the Prevention of Harassment and Discrimination (OPHD). These
resources should be displayed prominently, every team member should have access to
at least one communication device and resource list, and no one team member should
be in sole possession of communication devices or resource lists. And where possible,
consider the support of the Human Resources department to file grievances or receive
employee assistance.
Responsible employee obligations. Ensure that all employees are aware of their role
as responsible employees and limits to confidentiality. If you are unsure, contact the
Office for the Prevention of Harassment and Discrimination (OPHD). Remember, if
responsible employees receive information related to a violation of the UC SVSH Policy,
they must notify OPHD and offer resources to the impacted person. They do NOT need
to decide whether something actually occurred and they should NOT investigate the
incident.
This section provides specific strategies to prepare all team
members, from students to lead researchers, with the tools
and knowledge to engage in field work healthily, safely, and
respectfully.
>>>>>

[[page 12]]
10 | A Guide to Preventing Sexual Violence and Harassment in Field Placement
Update policies and procedures on a regular basis. In addition to reviewing existing
policies, collaboratively create or revise a field placement code of conduct and ensure
that all new team members are aware of the expectations before the start of the
placement. Research team members can acknowledge their understanding by signing
a contract. It is important to distinguish the field safety code of conduct from the UC
Berkeley student code of conduct. Specifically, the field safety code of conduct outlines
rules for respectful and collegial engagement. To create buy-in, involve students in the
creation and revision process. Consult with campus resources include the department
Faculty Equity Advisor, the Division of Equity and Inclusion, Center for Student Conduct,
and the PATH to Care Center.

[[page 13]]
11 | A Guide to Preventing Sexual Violence and Harassment in Field Placement
Prevention is possible:
creating and maintaining
a culture of respect
PART 4:

[[page 14]]
12 | A Guide to Preventing Sexual Violence and Harassment in Field Placement
>>>>>
Affirmative consent. Practice affirmative consent to ensure all interactions, both
personal and professional, are respectful and healthy. Everyone engages in consent in
everyday interactions. For example, agreeing to collaborate on a conference proposal or
to hug someone. By regularly practicing affirmative consent, it becomes easier to apply in
all relationships and interactions.

Under the UC SVSH Policy, consent is affirmative, voluntary, revocable, and
a conscious decision by each participant to engage in mutually agreed-upon
sexual activity.

* Non-coercion and respectful alcohol use. It is never okay to use alcohol to lower
someone's inhibitions or initiate sex with someone who is incapacitated, and being
intoxicated is never an excuse for committing violence.
Inclusivity, equity, and empowerment. Create and maintain opportunities in the
field for women and people of color, as well as other minoritized groups. This includes
ensuring equitable divisions of labor and providing equitable access to leadership and
professional opportunities.
* Accessibility. In the physical environment, ensure that there is proper lighting, tidy
workspaces where people of all abilities can move freely, and reduce the distance
individuals may need to travel between classes, field work sites and buildings and
housing.
The best way to prevent violence is to model positive,
respectful behavior for those around us. Here are things
everyone, regardless of position, can do in the field.

[[page 15]]
13 | A Guide to Preventing Sexual Violence and Harassment in Field Placement
Develop group cohesion. Create opportunities to build collaborative and trusting
relationships before team members arrive and while on site (e.g., team-building activities
that are not evaluated). These opportunities should encourage open, respectful
dialogue that promotes inclusion and belonging among team members. Ensure all
field team members have clear channels of communication and support, and are
aware of local and national resources by publishing this information in the department
newsletter, for instance.
Use affirming language and practice compassionate communication. Role model
respectful and inclusive language for other team members and local community
members. The following are examples of how team members can signal respect for
others and create space to voice concerns.
* Encourage a practice where each team member shares their gender pronouns to
avoid making assumptions about people's identities.
* Make sure everyone knows the correct pronunciation of team member's names.
* All team members have the right to communicate clearly, openly and with kindness.
* Affirm dissenting perspectives and appreciate feedback that is direct and
courageous.
* Implement a regular practice of acknowledging valuable contributions of all team
members, including appreciating people who were active bystanders.
Cues in the environment. In high traffic areas, post flyers with community-specific
prevention and social norms messages, and provide handouts on being an active
bystander. For example, posting flyers or sharing messaging that "92% of MCB grad
students would intervene if they saw someone engaging in harmful behavior" helps
promote a positive social norm for team members. This is a powerful prevention
message. Social norms data can be collected through department climate surveys,
MyVoice data reports, and social norms campaigns.

+
>>>>>

[[page 16]]
14 | A Guide to Preventing Sexual Violence and Harassment in Field Placement
Healthy boundaries. Boundaries exist in many forms: physically, emotionally,
intellectually, sexually, as well as with time and technology. Define and maintain your
healthy personal boundaries. Learn to respect others' boundaries and recognize subtle
ways in which someone might indicate their limits. For example, consider the impact of
power dynamics before sending a friend request to someone you supervise. This signals
to the person you have respect for their personal boundaries with technology, for
instance. Remember that caring and open communication is necessary to ensure each
person is respecting other's boundaries and decisions.
Bystander intervention. Create a culture where team members support people who
are being targeted by harm and harassment, and choose safe intervention options.
Examples of active bystander behavior include: directly addressing the problem
behavior, bringing the matter to someone in a position of authority, redirecting the
attention of the person causing harm, and supporting the targeted person afterward.

[[page 17]]
15 | A Guide to Preventing Sexual Violence and Harassment in Field Placement
Supporting a team
member impacted
by sexual harassment
in the field
PART 5:

[[page 18]]
16 | A Guide to Preventing Sexual Violence and Harassment in Field Placement
>>>>>
* Most importantly, listen to and believe them. Do not interrogate or make any
assumptions.
* Reassure the individual who is disclosing that what happened to them was not their
fault.
* Affirm that the decision to cooperate with law enforcement and/or OPHD, tell others,
get counseling, etc. is the individual's choice.
* Do not pressure or force them to take any action-even if you think it's the right thing.
* Validate and affirm their choices.
* Provide information and resources, especially about where they can find confidential
support. Refer to the Where to Get Support handout for more information.
* Simply ask the person what they need.
Below is sample language you might use when responding to a disclosure. However,
responding in your own words rather than using a script helps build trust and genuinely
demonstrates care and concern.
1. Create a safe environment. Disclosing can be a vulnerable and scary process.
Ensuring the survivor feels emotionally and physically safe in a space helps establish
trust. Do this by verbally checking in and offering to move to a location of the
survivor's choice. Avoid public areas where the conversation may be overheard.
Say: "Is this a comfortable and private location to talk?"
Challenges particular to field work include unclear, new, or
non-existent practices for respectful engagement. This can
make it difficult to identify harmful behavior, seek support
or notify authorities (e.g. supervisor, Human Resources, law
enforcement, etc.) if harm happens for both those directly and
indirectly impacted by the harm. This section provides tips for
responding with care and concern to individuals who share that
they have been impacted by harm or violence in the field.

[[page 19]]
17 | A Guide to Preventing Sexual Violence and Harassment in Field Placement
7 Any University employee (Excluding designated Confidential Resources) and who receives, in the course of employment, information that a student has
suffered behavior prohibited under the UC Policy on SVSH. This includes GSIs, and other student employees, Post Docs, and Lead Researchers. Faculty and
other supervisors who learn of Prohibited Conduct from any person affiliated with the University, regardless of who is affected (student, staff, or faculty
member)
2. Acknowledge them for approaching you with this matter. This helps
communicate that you value their courage.
Say: "I know it can be very difficult to share these circumstances; thank you for
trusting me."
3. Clarify your Responsible Employee obligations, if applicable, and limits of
confidentiality. Being transparent about your obligations assists in building trust
and empowering the survivor to make an informed choice. Try to inform the survivor
of your obligations before the disclosure occurs, when someone first approaches
you with a serious matter. If this is not possible inform them of your obligations
afterwards, and let them know the next steps in the process.
Say: "I have a responsibility to notify our campus Title IX office when I learn about
an incident like this; I'm letting you know so that you can choose what else you
share and what happens next."
4. Connect them to confidential resources. Regardless of the amount of detail
shared, connecting them to confidential resources gives them access to continuing
support. You can offer to call together or provide the information to the survivor so
they can call on their own.
Say: "I'd like to make sure you have all the information and support you need.
Would you like to call the PATH to Care Center together so you can learn about
your options? Here is the satellite phone to call UC Berkeley's 24/7 CARE Line - the
number is 1-510-643-2005, if you would like to call on your own."
5. Close and reaffirm your support:
Say: "I'm so glad that you're seeking resources. You deserve support,"

Disclosures can be challenging to receive and navigate. Remember that the
PATH to Care Center also helps people who are supporting survivors, like field
placement team members.

[[page 20]]
18 | A Guide to Preventing Sexual Violence and Harassment in Field Placement
After the field
placement has ended
PART 6:

[[page 21]]
19 | A Guide to Preventing Sexual Violence and Harassment in Field Placement
Remove a site from future placement options if there are incidents of sexual
violence or harassment. Communicate the concern and decision explicitly to the site
and any other stakeholders. This would include consulting with campus partners like
the PATH to Care Center and OPHD. Departments can create a list of former sites and
notes on why they are no longer an option.
Field placements serve to inspire students and provide
experience to become future researchers and practitioners.
Ensuring the belonging and safety of every team member is
a critical part of planning and implementing a successful field
experience. Lead staff, such as Principal Investigators and
field placement coordinators, should debrief with research
team members about their experiences in the field through
satisfaction surveys, focus groups, written accounts or other
data collection methods. Consult current and former team
members and colleagues about suggestions for ensuring
inclusion and equity, preventing harm and violence, and to
share how conditions and experiences can be improved in
the future. Whenever possible, create anonymous feedback
opportunities.

[[page 22]]
20 | A Guide to Preventing Sexual Violence and Harassment in Field Placement
December 2020