[[page 1]]
1
Carmen
Swahili, Somali, Italian, Russian, Arabic, Latin, Hebrew

Eligibility
Student Life Disability Services- Testing Accommodations
Carmen Remote Placement Testing Information

Score/Placement Verification *

PLEASE READ ALL SECTIONS BEFORE TAKING A PLACMENT TEST

*Advisors and students: Placement Test scores for MultiCAT exams may require up to 7
business days to be posted to student records. Carmen test results may take longer as they
may require additional verification activities or are graded individually by faculty. Questions?
haviernikova.1@osu.edu

[[page 2]]
2
Carmen COVID-19 Testing Protocol
Due to COVID -19 protocols at Ohio State, the main campus and testing centers were closed
from 2020 Spring to Present. In order to meet the needs of our students we are making the
placement tests for Arabic, Hebrew, Italian, Latin, Russian, Somali, and Swahili available for
remote testing.
When you are granted access to the testing shell, you will have 48 hours to begin and complete
the exam. Please allow 5-7 business days for your score to appear on your transcript.
Back to Top
Eligibility:
To be able to access the exams you must be a current or incoming student at OSU and have an
active OSU name. # and password . Without your OSU login credentials you will be un able to
access this exam due to the platform design.
Please note that you SHOULD NOT be taking a language placement if you:

a) Already have credit or a mark (as in a failing grade or an incomplete) for a college-level course
in the world language for which you are testing whether from OSU or another university; and/or
b) Are currently enrolled in a language course in the SAME language for which you are testing
c) Would like to start learning a language at Ohio State but have not taken this language in high
school and have no knowledge of it. In this case, you will enroll in the beginners' level language
course. You should still take a placement test in the language you have had at least two years of
instructions in high school or another language you have knowledge of.

If you meet the criteria of a) or b) above please contact Nina Haviernikova
(Haviernikova.1@osu.edu) to discuss other pathways to test out of or receive credit for existing
world language knowledge.
Back to Top
Student Life Disability Services - Testing Accommodations:
If you would like to request placement exam accommodations, you will need to submit an
application and documentation to Student Life Disability Services (SLD S) prior to taking the
exam. You can use this link to complete your application: New Student Application.
Please allow 2-3 business days for processing. Typical accommodations may include extended
time, alternative formats, and reader/scribe. If you are interested in utilizing academic
accommodations as an OSU student, you will need to complete the registration process. Please
contact Michelle Salomone (salomone.6@osu.edu), for more information.
Back to Top

[[page 3]]
3
Carmen Remote Placement Testing Information:
You will have one attempt to take the exam so please make sure you have a good internet
connection and a quiet space to take your exam. Testing allotment times will vary test by test so
please see the Score/Verification Section below for test details.
Technology Requirements
Browser Capabilities: before you begin a placement test, please check here to see if your browser
if supported by Carmen Canvas.
Recommended Devices: PC, Mac, tablets and iPad. You are not PERMITTED to take this exam
on a smart phone.
* If you are in need of a device you can request an iPad from ODEE by filling out the form
located here: http://go.osu.edu/dfservice
* Make sure to select "Request Use of Loaner iPad". Please be sure to include your shipping
address in the comments, and fill out the form as completely as possible!
Internet Speed: A download speed of at least five MBPS is recommended (or 10MBPS for audio
tests). To check your internet speed please click here.
Back to Top

Student Testing Instructions
A. Access to Carmen Language Testing Shell
1. Email CLLC (cllc@osu.edu) from your OSU email with the language that
you wish to take.
i. Please allow for 48 hours to gain access to shell.
ii. Email request will only be processed M-F 10am-4pm (with the
exception of university holidays) so please consider this when planning
your testing date.
2. You will receive an email confirmation with instructions and information on
testing. Please read this email carefully and follow the instructions in order to
gain access to the shell and test.
B. Score/Placement
1. Scores/Placement: For more information about your test scores please contact the
appropriate department (contacts are below).
2. Placement verification
i. Due to the proctorless nature of testing at this time, departments are
requiring verification of placement.
ii. Each department will have additional requirements. For more information,
see the Score/Placement Verification section below.

[[page 4]]
4
Score/Placement Verification
Due to the proctorless method of language placement testing some languages departments
are implementing a verification protocol for language placement that is assigned a fter you take
the exam.
For more information on the verification requirements for each of the languages please see below:
Back to Top

Arabic Hebrew Italian Latin

Russian

Somali

Swahili

Arabic
Testing Time: 120 mins
Format: Multiple-choice reading comprehension exam.
Contact: CLLC (cllc@osu.edu)
Verification Process: Any student who places out of AR 1103 will need to attend a virtual
meeting with verification coordinate and will then be required to take additional testing.
Verification contact: Marie Therese Labaki (Labaki.5@osu.edu)

Back to Language List
Hebrew
Testing Time: 75 mins
Format: Multiple-choice reading and listening comprehension exam.
Exam Access Contact: CLLC (cllc@osu.edu)
Verification Process: Verification for students who place out of HB 1103.
Verification Contact: Galit Golan ( golan.11@osu.edu )
Back to Language List

Italian
Testing Time: 60 mins
Format: 102 Multiple-choice exam. No verification required.
Exam Access Contact: CLLC (cllc@osu.edu)

Back to Language List

[[page 5]]
5
Latin
Testing Time: 60 mins
Format: Short answer and fill-in-the-blank test
Exam Access Contact: CLLC (cllc@osu.edu)
Verification Process: Exam requires manual grading from Latin faculty after exam submission, final
score and placement may be delayed.
Exam Grader: Fritz Graf (graf.65@osu.edu)

Russian
Testing Time: 90 mins Format: Listening section (19 questions), Reading section (11
questions), Grammar section (44 questions); AND a Short Interview in Russian (scheduled later)
Exam Access Contact: CLLC (cllc@osu.edu)
Verification Process: All student scores/placement will be verified by the department. Please
contact the individual listed below to verify your exam score and placement through a short (10
minute) Zoom interview.
Verification Contact: Larysa Stepanova (Stepanova.1@osu.edu)

Back to Language List
Somali

Testing Time: 60 mins
Format: 60-question multiple-choice exam
Exam Access Contact: CLLC (cllc@osu.edu)
Process: Verification required if placed at 1102.01 or above.
Verification Contact: Jibril Mohamed (Mohamed.196@osu.edu)

Back to Language List
Swahili

Testing Time: 60 mins
Format: 100-question multiple-choice exam
Exam Access Contact: CLLC (cllc@osu.edu)
Verification Process: Verification is required for anyone who places out of Swahili
1103.
Verification Contact: Salome Fouts (Fouts.25@osu.edu)

Back to Language List

[[page 6]]
6
Copyright © 2021 CLLC
All rights reserved. No part of these language placement exams may be reproduced, distributed, or transmitted in any form or by
any means, including photocopying, recording, or other electronic or mechanical methods.