[[page 1]]
Code of Conduct
In alignment with Ohio State's Shared Values, the College of Pharmacy aims to cultivate a culture
of excellence that values integrity, ethics, and equal opportunity in all aspects of the college's
endeavors. We are committed to creating a supportive intellectual community. All members of the
College of Pharmacy are expected to uphold these values so everyone can feel welcome, respected,
and supported as a part of the community.
A healthy community is one where each of us can work through interpersonal differences, remain
open to constructive feedback, and correct inappropriate behavior. We will work to foster a
supportive community for all.
Pharmacy Buckeyes are expected to exhibit appropriate conduct in their role at all times regardless
of location: on campus, while teleworking, at conferences, on rotation, etc. This includes compliance
with all relevant university policies and standards. Inappropriate behavior includes conduct that
is discriminatory, demeaning, derogatory, harassing, or abusive; unwelcome sexual attention; and
unwelcome physical contact. Inappropriate behavior may incur proportional consequences intended
to provide education, foster dialogue, and restore collegiality.
Have questions? Please reach out to pharmacy@osu.edu

[[page 2]]
Avoid judging,
discriminating, or making
unwelcome jokes or
disparaging remarks.
Be aware of power differentials between
academic stages (undergraduate,
graduate, postdoc, staff, faculty) and act
to protect and empower all members.
Conduct research and
collaboration in an
ethical manner.
Support those who
report violations of
college or university
policies and standards.
6 7 8 9
Commit to Openness and a Growth Mindset
Take Initiative
Commit to continually learning
and growing. Honor that no one
can know what they do not know
until they are taught otherwise.
Recognize that none of us know
everything and everyone has
something to offer.
Take it upon yourself to eliminate
challenges or barriers to success
that members may face.
Operate with positive
intentions and take
accountability when
positive intentions do
not yield the intended
outcome.
Intervene when
others exhibit conduct
unbecoming of a
community member.
Be receptive to
discussions of ways
to improve the culture,
environment, and
relationships of the
college.
Speak up when others
are disrespectful.
Receive feedback with
an open mind. View
constructive critique
as an opportunity to
improve even further.
Acquaint yourself with Ohio
State's policies on sexual
misconduct and codes of
conduct. Fulfill all associated
reporting obligations.
Challenge your own assumptions
about people and the sources of
those assumptions.
1
1
2
2
3
3
4
4
5
Note:
Principles adapted from the Ohio State Department of Linguistics and Ohio State Department
of Astronomy, both of which adapted their respective codes of conduct from the Princeton
Department of Physics.
Beyond refraining from inappropriate behavior, we ask that all members of the community make a
proactive effort to be mindful about how they engage with others in order to build a welcoming and
supportive environment. As such, we commit to the following Code of Conduct:
Respect and Support All College Community Members
Be courteous in your interactions.
Strive to live the Platinum Rule:
treat others how they want
to be treated. This includes
considering how individual needs
may vary from your own, as well
as creating space for people to
communicate their needs.
Respect the professional,
physical, and personal
boundaries of members.
Give members a chance
to voice their thoughts.
Seek to listen with
attention and speak with
intention.
Ensure all members
have equal access
to professional and
academic opportunities.
Offer feedback with intentionality.
Celebrate accomplishments and
growth. When necessary, ensure
critique is constructive and aims to
create an opportunity for learning.
1 2 3 4 5

[[page 3]]
Appendix: Resources
Shared Values
Ohio State
https://www.osu.edu/shared-values
OSU Policies and Standards
* Non-Discrimination, Harassment, and Sexual Misconduct Policy
* Affirmative Action & Equal Employment Opportunity Policy
* Access for Individuals with Disabilities Policy
* Campus Free Speech Policy
* Code of Student Conduct
* Whistleblower Policy
* Anti-Hazing Policy
OSU Reporting Mechanisms
* Anonymous Reporting Line
* Student Conduct
* Campus Free Speech Policy Complaint Investigation, Hearing, and Resolution Process
On-Campus Resources
* Civil Rights Compliance Office
* Office of University Compliance and Integrity
* Office of Ombuds Services
* Office of Student Life Student Mediation Program
* Office of Student Life Student Advocacy Center
* Office of Student Life Student Wellness Center
* Office of Student Life Disability Services
Off-Campus Resources
The American Association of University Professors (AAUP) Statement of Professional Ethics
We highlight the following key points:
National Academies of Science report "Fostering Integrity in Research"
The primary responsibility of professors is to
seek and state the truth as they see it. They
accept the obligation to exercise critical self-
discipline and judgment in using, extending,
and transmitting knowledge. They practice
intellectual honesty.
As teachers, professors encourage the
free pursuit of learning in their students.
They avoid any exploitation, harassment,
or discriminatory treatment of students.
They acknowledge significant academic or
scholarly assistance from them. They protect
their academic freedom.
As colleagues, professors have obligations
that derive from common membership in the
community of scholars. Professors do not
discriminate against or harass colleagues.
They respect and defend the free inquiry of
associates, even when it leads to findings
and conclusions that differ from their own.
1 2 3
Have questions? Please reach out to pharmacy@osu.edu