[[page 1]]
Adopted 10/7/2013 Bioethics and Humanities Policy on Academic Conduct 1

Department of Bioethics & Humanities Policy

Policy on Academic Conduct

The Department of Bioethics & Humanities (BH) abides by UW Arts and Sciences, Graduate School, and
School of Medicine polices governing academic conduct and follows all applicable state laws. The
Department policies set forth below are intended to clarify individuals' responsibilities and promote
accountability and integrity in carrying out these responsibilities.

Non-compliance with BH Department or instructor policies violates the UW Student Conduct Code,
which requires students to comply with all departmental and instructor guidelines and policies.

This Policy must be included in the course syllabus (or as an attachment to the syllabus) of every
course offered in the BH Department (including jointly listed courses).

GENERAL STANDARDS OF CONDUCT

UW Student Code of Conduct
Students in the BH Department abide by the UW Student Code of Conduct, which requires students to
"conduct themselves as responsible members of the academic community," and requires "[p]racticing
high standards of academic and professional honesty and integrity."
(Source: University of Washington, Standards of Conduct, Washington Administra tive Code, WAC 478-120-020 at
https://www.washington.edu/admin/rules/policies/WAC/478-120-020.html)
UW Medicine Standards of Professionalism
Faculty, staff, and students in the BH Department abide by the UW Medicine standards of
professionalism. Professionalism requires demonstrating excellence, integrity, respect, compassion,
and accountability in all interactions, and ensuring that all are treated with respect, dignity, and
courtesy. Violations of professionalism include, but are not limited to, shouting or using offensive
language, unwanted physical contact, demeaning comments, and behaviors interpreted as
disrespectful, retaliatory, or disruptive.

When unprofessional behavior is reported, the Department strives to achieve an informal resolution
satisfactory to all parties. This may include: one-on-one communication among affected parties;
communication involving the BH Chair and/or the appropriate BH program director (for graduate
students, the Director of Graduate Studies, and for undergraduates, the Director of Undergraduate
Studies); and/or communication involving the UW Ombudsman. Issues that require reporting beyond
the Department will be referred appropriately.
(Source: UW Medicine Policy on Professional Conduct at http://www.uwmedicine.org/global/policies/pages/professional-
conduct.aspx)

Equal Opportunity
The BH Department abides by UW's policies affirming equal opportunity for all members of the UW
community regardless of race, color, creed, religion, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, age,
marital status, disability, or status as a disabled veteran or Vietnam-era veteran, and complies with all

[[page 2]]
Adopted 10/7/2013 Bioethics and Humanities Policy on Academic Conduct 2

applicable federal and state statutes and regulations.

STANDARDS OF CONDUCT FOR COURSES
Cheating & Plagiarism
Students are responsible for understanding what cheating is and avoiding it. Cheating consists of
presenting as your own something that you did not do, or using unfair means in completing
assignments. For example, cheating occurs when a student copies another student's answers during
an exam, helps another student to cheat, or has a friend write a paper for them. Cheating also occurs
when a student puts his or her name on a group assignment that they did not help to produce, consults
notes or the Internet during an assignment that prohibits this, or obtains a copy of an exam from a
prior year that is not provided by and sanctioned by the instructor.

A common form of cheating is plagiarism. Plagiarism consists of representing the words, ideas, or
creations of another person without proper citation. It does not matter whether the ideas you
represent as your own are taken from the Internet, a conversation with a friend, or a scholarly book or
article. Plagiarism may be intentional or unintentional, overt or implied (e.g., failing to cite sources
implies that you are the author), and may involve all or a portion of someone else's work (e.g., using
another student's outline to write your own paper). Even when you provide appropriate references,
you commit plagiarism if you use someone else's exact words and omit quotation marks.

Instructors who suspect cheating in their classes are responsible for reporting it in writing to the BH
Chair and to the student(s) suspected of cheating. The Chair will determine if the matter can be
resolved at the Department level, or if reporting to a UW committee on academic conduct is
warranted. (The appropriate UW committee is determined by the student's major field of study or, in
the case of pre-majors, is determined by the student's school of matriculation.) Any individual may at
any time request that the case be referred to a UW committee on academic conduct or may refer the
matter directly.
(Sources: The UW Committee on Academic Conduct in the College of Arts and Sciences at url :
http://depts.washington.edu/grading/pdf/AcademicResponsibility.pdf ; UW Graduate School Style Manual; UW Bothell
Catalog; UW Student Conduct Code)

Multiple Submissions
The UW defines "multiple submission" as "the practice of submitting a single paper for credit in two
different classes (in the same quarter or in different quarters)." Although the UW does not prohibit
multiple submissions, individual BH faculty may prohibit the practice in their classes. Any student
wishing to make a multiple submission must clear it with all professors involved.
(Sources: Student Academic Responsibility policy, College of Arts and Sciences; University of Washington, Standards of
Conduct, Washington Administrative Code, WAC 478-120-020 at
https://www.washington.edu/admin/rules/policies/WAC/478-120-020.html)
Incompletes
UW Policy allows an incomplete grade in a class only when a student has attended a class throughout
the quarter and completed satisfactory work until within two weeks of the quarter's end. To qualify
for an incomplete, the student must demonstrate to the instructor's satisfaction that the remaining
course work cannot be completed due to illness or circumstances beyond the student's control.

[[page 3]]
Adopted 10/7/2013 Bioethics and Humanities Policy on Academic Conduct 3

(Source: UW General Catalog Online, "Student Guide/Grading")
Late Assignments
The Department requires students to submit assignments by instructor deadlines. This avoids giving
some students advantages (i.e., extra time) not available to others. Unless there is a documented
disability or documented medical reason for a student to miss an assignment deadline, the instructor
will reduce student grades for late assignments, e.g., by assigning a zero for the late assignment, or
deducting points for each day the assignment is late. The Department encourages faculty to
communicate class policies for missed assignments to the entire class at the beginning of each quarter.
Students who know in advance that they have a conflict with a class deadline should contact the
instructor in advance to make alternate arrangements, such as submitting the assignment early.

Grade Appeals
A student who believes that an assignment grade is unfair should discuss the matter with the
instructor. After doing so, if the student believes that there has not been a fair resolution, the student
may make a written appeal to the BH Chair, the BH Director of Graduate Studies (for graduate
students), or the BH Director of Undergraduate Studies (for undergraduates), with a copy of the appeal
sent to the instructor. The Chair or Program Director will consult with the instructor. If the grading is
not arbitrary or capricious, the instructor will determine an appropriate remedy. If a Program Director
believes that the instructor's grading is arbitrary or capricious, this must be reported to the
Department Chair.

If the Department Chair believes that the instructor's grading is arbitrary or capricious, the Chair will
ask the instructor to revise the student's grade. If the instructor declines to revise the grade when
requested to do so, the Chair will appoint an appropriate member, or members, of the BH faculty to
grade the student's assignment and this grade will substitute for the instructor's; this action will be
reported to the Dean and Provost, with copies of the student's written appeal and all subsequent
actions on this appeal recorded in the student's file.
(Source: UW General Catalog Online, "Student Guide/Grading")

ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
Disability Accommodation
UW is committed to providing access, equal opportunity and reasonable accommodation in its
services, programs, activities, education and employment for individuals with disabilities. For
information or to request disability accommodation contact: Disabled Students Services (Seattle
campus) at (206) 543-8924/V, (206) 543-8925/TTY, (206) 616-8379/Fax, or e-mail at
uwdss@u.washington.edu.

Sexual Harassment
Sexual harassment is defined as using one's authority or power, either explicitly or implicitly, to coerce
another into unwanted sexual relations or to punish another for his or her refusal, or as the creation by
a member of the University community of an intimidating, hostile, or offensive working or educational
environment through verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature.
If you believe that you are being harassed, seek help-the earlier the better. You may speak with your

[[page 4]]
Adopted 10/7/2013 Bioethics and Humanities Policy on Academic Conduct 4

instructor, the BH Director of Undergraduate Studies, the BH Director of Graduate Studies, or the BH
Chair. In addition, the University has designated special people to help you. They are: UW Ombudsman
and UW Ombudsman for Sexual Harassment (for complaints involving faculty members and teaching
assistants) Susan Neff, 301 Student Union (HUB), 543-6028; and the UW Complaint Investigation and
Resolution Office, 616-2028.
(Sources: UW Graduate School, CIDR, and Office of the President)

Office of Scholarly Integrity
The UW defines scientific and scholarly misconduct to include the following forms of inappropriate
activities: intentional misrepresentation of credentials; falsification of data; plagiarism or other forms
of cheating; abuse of confidentiality; deliberate violation of regulations applicable to research. The UW
has also created the Office of Scholarly Integrity to address such concerns. The Office investigates and
resolves allegations of scientific and scholarly misconduct by UW faculty, students, and staff. The
Office is responsible for compliance with reporting requirements established by Federal and other
funding agencies in matters of scientific or scholarly misconduct.
(Sources: Handbook, Vol. II, Section 25-51, Executive Order #61 at
http://www.washington.edu/admin/rules/policies/PO/EO61.html )
This Guide is adapted from material prepared by the Department of Philosophy and the Department of
History, and is used with permission.)