[[page 1]]
Disruptive Student Behavior 1
DISRUPTIVE STUDENT
BEHAVIOR
I. PREAMBLE
When disruptive behavior occurs in the class, the instructor shall make
reasonable effort to address the disruption with the student, preferably
in private. Toward that end, the instructor and student may consult with
Ombuds Services, the Dean of Students, the department chair, or other
University offices to discuss ways to resolve the situation informally at
any time during the process set forth in this policy.
II. DEFINITION
Disruptive student behavior in the classroom (on and off campus) is
likely to negatively affect the educational experience of the students and
instructor(s). Disruptive behavior is defined as any speech or actions
that hampers the ability of the instructor(s) to teach or students to learn.
Examples of disruptive behavior include, but are not limited to:
* Creating excessive noise
* Refusal to comply with instructor direction
* Unreasonable interference with class discussion including, but not
limited to, failure to respect the rights of other students to express
their viewpoints
* Talking when the instructor or others are speaking
* Verbal abuse or threat of instructor or other students (e.g., taunting,
badgering, intimidation)
* Repeated obscenities
* Making/receiving personal phone calls
* Leaving and entering class frequently in the absence of notice to
instructor of illness or other extenuating circumstances
* Persisting in disruptive personal conversations with other students
NOTE: The expectation at the University is that students must maintain
appropriate behavior regardless of their viewpoints. This policy applies
only to disruptive actions or speech by students that negatively impacts
the educational environment, not the views or opinions of any individuals
or groups.
III. PROCEDURE
Should the instructor elect to withdraw the disruptive student from class,
the following procedures must be followed. Where this policy conflicts
with the Non-Academic Code of Conduct, this policy will prevail with
respect to disruptive behavior in the academic setting.
STEP ONE: INSTRUCTOR'S RESPONSE TO DISRUPTIVE
BEHAVIOR
When non-threatening disruptive behavior occurs in a class:
A. The instructor will verbally or (in the case of online or hybrid
class situations) via email warn the student that their behavior is
disruptive and that it must cease immediately or the student may
face removal from the class.
B. If the student fails to again comply with the instructor's warning
to cease the disruptive behavior, the instructor may give a second
warning and note that the next disruption will lead to the student
being asked to leave the classroom or online space for the
remainder of the class period.
C. If the student is asked to leave the classroom for the remainder
of the period based on a third disruptive incident, but refuses, the
instructor may summon the campus police to escort the student
from the classroom. If online class, faculty can moderate and/or
temporarily disable LMS functions to prevent the student from
further activity until a resolution is determined.
D. At the conclusion of the class period the instructor should file a
CARE report.
E. If at any time the instructor or student believes it would be
beneficial to contact Ombuds Services, the student may consult an
Ombudsperson in an effort to resolve the matter.
F. If the student's non-threatening disruptive behavior persists in
subsequent course meetings instructor(s) may proceed to Step
Two, below.
When threatening disruptive behavior occurs in a class:
A. If the instructor believes the disruptive behavior poses an
immediate threat to the safety of the instructor, the student, or
any other students or persons, the instructor should summon the
campus police to report the incident and remove the student from
the class if on campus, regardless of whether a warning has been
issued. At the conclusion of the class period the instructor should
immediately file a CARE report.
B. If the instructor believes the student should not be permitted to
return to the class to continue in that course, the student should
proceed to Step Two, below.
STEP TWO: WITHDRAWAL PROCESS
A. THE INSTRUCTOR
1. If the instructor believes that withdrawing the student from
the course is the appropriate course of action, the instructor
shall, within one (1) business day of the disruptive incident,
file a report with the Dean of Students' Office detailing the
disruptive incident(s). The Dean of Students will immediately
notify the faculty member's department chair.
2. If the Instructor has the disruptive student in more than one
class, and the Instructor believes that the student is disrupting
learning in more than one of those classes, or when the
student is exhibiting threatening and/or intimidating behavior
outside the class (e.g., in the instructor's office, outside the
classroom, 3 etc.), the instructor may recommend that the
student is removed from all courses taught by that instructor.
B. DEAN OF STUDENTS
Except for extenuating circumstances, the following steps will be
followed:
1. Upon receipt of the disruptive student report from the
faculty member, the Dean of Students and the faculty
member's department chair shall determine if the threshold for
a formal process is required.
2. If the decision has been made to pursue a formal process,
the Dean of Students shall notify the student via University of

[[page 2]]
2 Disruptive Student Behavior
Michigan-Dearborn email within 3 business day of receiving
the Instructor's report. The email shall include:
* Notice to the student that a formal evaluation
process has begun;
* A written description of the disruptive behavior
incident and faculty complaint;
* A link to the Disruptive Student Conduct Policy,
which includes a description of the appeals process;
* A statement letting the student know of the 5
business day deadline to respond to the complaint;
and
* Ombuds Services contact information.
3. The Dean of Students and department chair have the
authority to put interim measures into place until a resolution
has been reached, as needed to serve the academic mission
of the University. Interim measures may include separation
from the class(es) or other interventions deemed appropriate.
These measures may be kept in place until the end of any
review or appeal process. To the extent possible the university
will provide opportunities for the student to continue
working on their coursework. Failure to abide by the interim
interventions is a violation of this Policy and may lead to
additional disciplinary actions.
4. The Dean of Students and department chair shall make
themselves available to meet with the student as soon as
possible within 5 business days after notice is provided to the
student.
5. Within 5 business days after meeting with the student, or if
the student does not avail him/herself of the meeting option,
the Dean of Students and department chair shall decide on the
appropriate outcome and send notice of their decision, with
an explanation of the basis for the decision, to the student,
instructor, and dean via University of Michigan-Dearborn e-
mail. The decision may consist of:
* Allowing the student to return to course or courses,
with or without conditions;
* Allowing or requiring the student to transfer to
another course section or sections; or
* Withdrawing the student from the involved course or
courses.
There shall be included in the email communication a notice that the
student may appeal the decision to the college dean within 5 business
days from the date of the email notice of the decision.
STEP THREE: THE APPEALS PROCESS
The student may appeal the decision of the Dean of Students and
department chair to the college dean. The student's appeal must be
received by the college dean within 5 business days of the date of the
decision. The college dean's decision shall be made and will be sent
to the student via University of Michigan-Dearborn email within five 5
business days of receipt by the college dean of the student's appeal.
STEP FOUR: FINAL RESOLUTION
Students withdrawn for disruptive behavior from a course will receive
a grade of W. If the charge of disruptive behavior is upheld, regardless
of whether the student is allowed to return to the course, the student is
responsible for any loss of financial aid. In the event a decision is made
at any point in this process that the student was removed from class
without sufficient cause, then the student will be allowed to immediately
return to the course without penalty and the chair and instructor will work
with the student to facilitate the completion of any work missed.
DISRUPTIVE STUDENT BEHAVIOR IN
OTHER ACADEMIC SETTINGS
I. PREAMBLE
Just as each instructor should prepare their students regarding
expectations for student behavior, so, too, should personnel in other
academic settings. Work areas such as libraries 5 and offices, unlike
classrooms, are frequented by the public. Hence, personnel in these
areas may not have as much control over who enters their space as does
an instructor teaching a class. Preventive measures rely, in part, on the
protocol established within offices or other university facilities. These
measures can include signage, literature regarding how a student may
file a complaint, training on communication techniques for staff who
initially come into contact with people entering the area, and procedures
for office personnel to follow should a disruption occur. These procedures
should include a referral to the appropriate unit head so that a potentially
disruptive student has a resource to which the student can be directed to
address a concern.
II. DEFINITION
As is the case with disruptive student behavior in the classroom,
disruptive student behavior in other academic settings can negatively
affect the educational experience of students and instructor(s).
Disruptive student behavior in other academic settings is speech or
action that is disrespectful and/or threatening and either interferes with
the learning activities of other students or instructor(s) or impedes the
delivery of University services, including but not limited to:
* Campus and colleges offices/staff
* The library
* Learning centers
* Field trips
* Study abroad
* Study lounges and/or study rooms
* Other curricular or co-curricular units
III. PROCEDURE
STEP ONE: Response to the Disturbance
When non-threatening disruptive behavior occurs in an academic setting
outside the classroom:
A. The staff1 or faculty member will verbally warn the student that
their behavior is disruptive and that it must cease immediately or
the student may face removal from the immediate setting.
B. If the student fails to again comply with the staff or faculty
member's warning to cease the disruptive behavior, the staff or
faculty member may give a second warning and note that the
next disruption will lead to the student being asked to leave the
immediate setting for the day.
C. If the student is asked to leave the immediate setting for the
remainder of the day based on a third disruptive incident, but

[[page 3]]
Disruptive Student Behavior 3
refuses, the staff or faculty member may summon the campus
police to escort the student from the immediate setting.
D. At the conclusion of the disruptive event the staff or faculty
member should file a CARE report (https://umich.qualtrics.com/jfe/
form/SV_0AQ9ConHqso2Qjr/).
E. If at any time the staff/faculty member or student believes it
would be beneficial to contact Ombuds Services, the student may
consult an Ombudsperson in an effort to resolve the matter.
F. If the student's non-threatening disruptive behavior persists in
subsequent interactions with the staff or faculty member proceed
to Step Two, below.
When threatening disruptive behavior occurs in an academic setting
outside the classroom:
If the staff or faculty member believes the disruptive behavior
poses an immediate threat to the safety of the student, any other
students or persons, or them, the staff member or faculty should
summon campus safety to remove the student, regardless of
whether a warning has been issued. At the conclusion of the
disruptive incident the staff or faculty member should immediately
file a CARE report (https://umich.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/
SV_0AQ9ConHqso2Qjr/).
STEP TWO: DEAN OF STUDENTS REVIEW
The Dean of Students and the appropriate university personnel shall
determine if the threshold for a formal process is met.
If the Dean and appropriate university personnel determine, based on the
initial review of the complaint, that the alleged behavior is not actionable
or that the matter would be better handled through another process or
office, the Dean will notify the staff or faculty member via University of
Michigan-Dearborn email that the matter is not actionable.
If the Dean of Students determines, based on an initial review, that the
alleged behavior requires an additional response from the University,
the Dean will notify the staff or faculty member that the issue is being
addressed. The student will be notified via University of Michigan-
Dearborn e-mail within 3 business days to schedule a meeting. The email
shall include:
* Notice to the student that a formal evaluation process has begun;
* A written description of the disruptive behavior incident;
* A link to the Disruptive Student Conduct Policy, which includes a
description of the appeals process; and
* Ombuds Services contact information.
The Dean of Students shall have the authority to put interim measures
into place until a resolution has been reached, as needed, to serve the
academic mission of the University. Interim measures may include
separation from the setting or other interventions deemed appropriate.
These measures may be kept in place until the end of any review or
appeal process. Failure to abide by the interim interventions is a violation
of this policy and may lead to additional disciplinary actions.
Within 5 business days after meeting with the student (or if the student
does not avail him/herself of the meeting option, the Dean of Students
shall decide on the appropriate outcome and send notice of the decision,
with an explanation of the basis for the decision, to the student, staff/
faculty member, director or unit head of the staff/faculty member, and
college dean via University of Michigan-Dearborn. The decision may
consist of:
* Allowing the student to return to the academic setting in which the
incident occurred, with or without conditions;
* Prohibiting the student from returning to the academic setting in
which the incident occurred;
* Suspending the student through the Non-Academic Code of Conduct
policy; or
* Other sanctions deemed appropriate.
There shall be included in the email communication a notice that the
student may appeal the decision to the Provost or designee within 5
business days from the date of the email notice of the decision.
STEP THREE: THE APPEALS PROCESS AND FINAL RESOLUTION
The student may appeal the decision of the Dean of Students to the
Provost or designee. The student's appeal must be received by the
Provost or designee within 5 business days of the date of the decision.
The Provost or designee decision shall be made and will be sent to the
student via University of Michigan-Dearborn email within 5 business days
of receipt of the student's appeal.
1Staff includes student employees like Supplemental Instruction Leaders,
Tutors, and Learning Centers consultants as well as full time staff
members.