[[page 1]]
Graduate Student Handbook

Department of Geography
University of Florida
Fall 2023

Dr. Jane Southworth, Chair
Dr. Joann Mossa, Associate Chair
Dr. Jason K. Blackburn, Graduate Coordinator
Mr. Joshua Worcester, Academic Assistant II

3141 Turlington Hall P.O. Box 117315
Gainesville FL 32611-7315
Phone: (352) 392-0494 Fax: (352) 392-8855
Website: www.geog.ufl.edu

[[page 2]]
Table of Contents
Introduction ................................ ................................ ................................ ............... 2
General Information ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 2
ANNUAL REPORTING ON PROGRESS: ................................ ................................ ....... 2
FINAL GRADUATION CHECK ................................ ................................ ..................... 3
GEOGRAPHY COLLOQUIUM SERIES ................................ ................................ .......... 3
Degrees Offered, Concentrations, Minors, and Certificates ................................ .......... 4
Definition of Good Academic Standing / Satisfactory Progress ................................ .... 5
Options for Support: Assistantships and Fellowships ................................ ................... 5
Selecting your Committee Chair and Forming the Committee ................................ ...... 5
Master of Arts and Master of Science Requirements ................................ .................... 7
Master's Program Course Requirements ................................ ................................ ..... 8
Requirements for the Doctor of Philosophy Degree ................................ ..................... 9
Steps Towards Candidacy ................................ ................................ ........................ 9
Comprehensive Exam ................................ ................................ .............................. 9
Proposal Defense ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 10
Completion of the Dissertation ................................ ................................ ............... 10
Ph.D. Program Course Requirements (90 hours minimum) ................................ ..... 12
Appendices ................................ ................................ ................................ .............. 14

[[page 3]]
2

Introduction
This "Brief Guide" specifies the Geography Department's internal requirements, standards, and
procedures for obtaining an advanced degree. This handbook also reviews the general requirements
of the Graduate School, though it does not replace those. Please keep in mind that when you apply
for graduation, the Department certifies that you have met our required coursework and followed our
internal procedures. The Graduate School verifies committee memberships, minor and special minor
coursework, and other regulations that they impose. You must satisfy both the Department and
Graduate School regulations before your degree can be completed. This Handbook is designed to
help students avoid misunderstandings and unnecessary delays. However, it does not address or
replace all the rules, regulations, and instructions contained in the online catalogs and handbooks of
the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences and the Graduate School.
For more complete information see:
http://graduateschool.ufl.edu/media/graduate-school/pdf-files/handbook.pdf
General Information
ANNUAL REPORTING ON PROGRESS:
The Advisor is the initial contact person for a graduate student in UF Geography. The advisor
oversees research and the committee. When funded by research support from the advisor, the
advisor also serves as the immediate work supervisor. Students are required to provide an annual
report on their progress by March 15th each year of their program. For doctoral students this will
include the Individual Development Plan, Program of Study, and Annual Activities Report. For
Masters students this will include the Program of Study and Annual Activities Report. Templates for
each of these reports are available on the Geography Department Website under Forms.
1. Individual Development Plan (IDP) - PhD. The Graduate School requires that all PhD students
complete an Individual Development Plan (IDP) with guidance from their advisor during year
one, and that it be updated annually and reviewed by the student's advisor. The IDP is a planning
tool for students, to be completed and updated throughout their academic careers at UF. An IDP
helps students to assess and evaluate which skills and aptitudes would be most beneficial for the
professional and personal goals they have after graduating from UF. The document is student-
driven and meant to be revised or updated periodically. The aim is to capture a student's
changing set of tools, values, and interests, and adjust their goals in conjunction with the
resources available to them in their programs and their intended areas of expertise.
Students are required to meet with their advisors at least one time per year to discuss and update
the IDP. A copy of the IDP, signed by the student's advisor must be submitted digitally to
the Graduate Coordinator through a DocuSign process annually by March 15th.
2. Program of Study - MA/MS and PhD. This form is completed by Masters and Doctoral students
with the assistance of their advisor and supervisory committee. This form should be completed
during year one, and presented to the student's supervisory committee for approval at the first

[[page 4]]
3

committee meeting. Every year the program of study should be updated and submitted
digitally to the Graduate Coordinator via a DocuSign process by March 15th.
A copy of this completed form must be presented to the Graduate Coordinator for final
graduation check.

3. Annual Activities Reports (AAR) - MA/MS and PhD. This report documents the student's
accomplishments for the previous year (7/01/xx to 6/30/xx), including milestones achieved,
presentations and papers published, as well as grants and awards earned. This report must be
reviewed and signed by the student's advisor and submitted digitally to the Graduate
Coordinator via a DocuSign process annually by March 15th.
FINAL GRADUATION CHECK
Students must schedule a Final Graduation Check with the Graduate Coordinator at least two
semesters before planned graduation. Students must bring a completed Program of Study Form as
well as an informal copy of their transcripts. During meetings, students should be prepared to
compare transcripts to departmental requirements from this handbook and any certificate programs.
Note: the graduate coordinator is NOT the certificate coordinator.
GEOGRAPHY COLLOQUIUM SERIES
The Geography Department has a weekly colloquium series held on Thursdays at 3PM.
The weekly colloquium serves several purposes:
* A forum for external speakers.
* A "Shop window" in which new graduate students can view the most recent research of faculty
members and their fellow graduate students.
* A friendly forum in which students can receive valuable feed-back about their research and
presentation skills before presenting at professional meetings or interviews for employment.
* An opportunity to give and receive intellectual stimuli and suggestions and to learn about
research techniques and terminology from areas of specialization other than your own.
* A weekly meeting at which one can catch up on the academic and social activities of the
department.
Graduate student attendance is required for a set number of semesters, as described below.
Nevertheless, all students are expected to attend regularly while resident on the UF Campus.
* PhDs must attend 4 semesters and register for 4 credit hours (1/semester).
o PhDs must give a professional job talk on their dissertation research after becoming
ABD, and only after at least 2/3 of research is complete (or 2 of 3 papers). If the
presentation is given without clear completion of research, the student will be required
to present again later.
* MA/MS must attend 2 semesters and register for 2 credit hours (1/semester).
o MA/MSs must present their thesis during designated poster sessions before graduating.

[[page 5]]
4

* Students may choose to attend colloquium and register for credit in a later semester. But, in
this case the student is responsible to (1) advise responsible faculty of intention, (2) maintain a
letter of completion with grade at end of term, and (3) provide completion letter to department
at time of registration for credit. Students are not permitted to register for colloquium credit for
a current semester with the intention of attending during a later semester.
Email Correspondence from the Department, Graduate School, and UF will only be sent to your
Gatorlink account, so it's important that you monitor your Gatorlink account daily and be sure you are
subscribed to Geography's list-serv.
Plan to complete degree in timely fashion. Remember that most faculty are on 9-month
appointments from Aug 15 - May 15 and may not be available for summer defenses. In addition, after
7 years the Graduate School deems coursework invalid, and, consequently, required courses will
need to be repeated. Finally, be aware of the Graduate School's deadlines for applying for graduation
and submitting theses and dissertations, especially if you plan to graduate in a specific semester.
Knowing the deadlines is the student's responsibility.
Degrees Offered, Concentrations, Minors, and Certificates
Master of Arts and Master of Science: Degree requirements are identical; consult Graduate
Information Management System (GIMS) to be sure your degree is listed correctly.
Doctor of Philosophy: For students who possess a Master's degree, which can be from any field.
The graduate school maintains a list of formal concentrations, minors, and certificates. Please note,
these may differ from a given focus area or sub-discipline recognized by the department or your
academic sub-field within geography.
Concentrations: Applications of Geographic Technologies, Climate Science, Geographic Information
Systems, Hydrologic Sciences, Tropical Conservation and Development, Wetland Sciences. Although
Geography must add a concentration to your degree in the Student Information System, we do not
have a list of requirements for these and cannot advise students on course selection.
Minors: You may choose to add a minor to your degree. It can be existing, or you can create your
own. You must have a committee member unaffiliated with Geography to represent your minor. To
create a minor, work with your external (unaffiliated) faculty member to serve as the minor advisor. If
the minor is unofficial and you create it with the external member, a letter describing the minor name,
courses, and signature will have to come from the external advisor. The graduate coordinator can
assist with this process.
Certificates: Geography currently advises graduate students for the certificate in Applied
Atmospheric Sciences, Digital Geography, and Medical Geography. Other certificates are available,
but we cannot advise students on course selection. A list of available graduate-level certificates:
http://graduateschool.ufl.edu/academics/graduate-certificates-list. Students must apply for
certificates online at: http://www.admissions.ufl.edu/start.html

[[page 6]]
5

Certificates are managed by several faculty members. Students interested in applying for a certificate
need to contact the coordinator for that specific certificate to be admitted.
https://geog.ufl.edu/programs/certificates/grad-cert/
Definition of Good Academic Standing / Satisfactory
Progress
All students must maintain a 3.0 GPA each semester to remain in good academic standing. For PhD
students, great progress is admission to candidacy at the end of three years in the program.
Satisfactory status is achieved for admission to candidacy prior to the end of 4 years. Beyond this
time, students will not receive priority consideration for departmental funding or travel awards.
Although great progress is to complete all degree requirements within two years of attaining ABD
status, all work for the doctorate must be completed within 5 calendar years after the qualifying
examination to remain in good academic standing.
All students registering for GEO6971, GEO7979, or GEO7980 must contact their advisor prior to the
end of drop/add and submit a plan for research that term. Within one week after classes end, the
student must contact the advisor with a progress report. Failure to submit a progress report will result
in a grade of U being assigned for those credits.
Options for Support: Assistantships and Fellowships
The department supports graduate students with a limited number of teaching assistantships.
Incoming PhD students may receive Fellowships or top-up awards - Graduate School rules prohibit
these awards being made to current students. Individual faculty may have funding for research
assistants, but students must contact faculty directly to inquire about these opportunities. All students
must be in good academic standing and be making satisfactory progress to be eligible for funding.
Funded students must remain in good academic standing each semester for continued support.
Selecting your Committee Chair and Forming the
Committee
During your first semester, your initial contact faculty member and the Graduate Coordinator can be
consulted when selecting a program of courses and research. During Semester 1, students should
make appointments to meet with faculty that share similar research interests and select a n Advisor
who will serve as Committee Chair. This professor must have Graduate Faculty Status (GFS) in the
Department of Geography. The Advisor must approve all aspects of the gr aduate student's program
(e.g., Supervisory Committee members, courses, timeline for completion of requirements). You
should communicate your progress to your advisor regularly and should meet with them a minimum
once per semester. Note the advisor and student relationship is important and dynamic.

During Semesters 1 and 2, students should meet with additional faculty members to identify potential
committee members. Specific rules governing the formation of the committee are set by the Graduate
School, so please consult the Graduate Student Handbook. Accordingly, Geography faculty cannot
be in the minority on any committee. Masters -level committees must have three members and two
must be from Geography. For Ph .D. students, committees must consist of at least four members, at
least two must be from Geography, and one member must be declared as the external member - this

[[page 7]]
6

faculty cannot hold a joint affiliation with Geography and their job is to represent the Graduate School
in all committee meetings. If a minor is selected, a fa culty member outside of Geography must also
represent this minor; this person can double as the minor representative and external member. It is
possible to have more committee members than the minimum of four. It is department policy that an
affiliate faculty member cannot serve as a committee chair, and no more than one affiliate faculty can
serve on a committee. Committees must be submitted to the Graduate School - forms are to be filed
with the Department's Graduate Coordinator or departmental administrative staff, who then enters the
information into the Student Information System . Please check to verify that your committee
information is correct.

The Supervisory Committee will be responsible for all subsequent advisement receive d by the
graduate student, including coursework. Establish your committee by the end of your first year in
the program as r equired by the Graduate S chool. Present your Program of S tudy containing
intended coursework at your initial committee meeting (usually held at the end of year 1 or start of
year 2) for approval. These processes are all initiated through a DocuSign process that starts
with an email to the graduate coordinator.
Graduate Assistantship Requirements
Each GA-T (teaching) and GA-R (research), and GSF recipients are employees as well as graduate
students. GA -Ts report directly to the department chair for assignments and management. These
appointments can expect to dedicate and be available 20 hours per week to the teaching
requirement. This is in addition to course work and graduate research. GA -Rs report directly to their
supervising faculty member (and academic advisor) for assignment. These positions can expect to
dedicate and be available in the appropriate, lab-, field-, or office-based facilities 20 hours per week to
complete assigned duties. Graduate research may or may not fall directly within the GA-R duties. Like
a GA -T, the 20 -hour commitment is to the assigned duties. GSF appointments may have some
combination of GA -T or GA -R. Duties fall to GA -T or GA -R described above, with the department
chair supervising teaching duties and the academic adv isor supervising the research duties as
assigned. Teaching, Research, or GSF appointments are comparable and the expectation of
professionalism the same. Teaching or grading GA -Ts are part of the face of our geography teaching
classroom and online spaces and represent the department. GA-Rs are likewise integral to laboratory
research success on funded projects and de liverables directly contribute the scopes of work and
funded deliverables. GAs/GSF students in geography are critical to the success of our department's
teaching, research, and outreach efforts. Participation as professionals in our classrooms, online
spaces, labs, departmental meetings, and colloquia is expected . Availability for meeting with
students, when teaching, or lab leadership, when doing research, is expected as part of the assigned
20 hours per week.

[[page 8]]
7

Master of Arts and Master of Science Requirements
We expect master's students to finish their program in 2-3 years . The completion of the degree
requires a minimum of 30 hours of coursework, the production of a thesis, a poster presentation of
the research at a departmental Colloquium session, and a public defense of the thesis. Plan carefully
so that all requirements are met. After 7 years, coursework becomes invalid, and must be repeated.

The Master's Thesis should be of publishable quality, demonstrating the student's ability to perform
original empirical or theoretical research. It can follow a research paper format with additional
introduction and conclusions chapter for three total chapters, or a monograph-style thesis, and should
be prepared according to the requirements of the Graduate School. Your Advisor and Committee
provide feedback and comments prior to the production of a final version of the thesis and the
scheduling of its defense. The Graduate School has strict guidelines for the formatting of the
document, and it is the responsibility of the student, not the committee, to ensure that these
guidelines are met. In the semester you plan to graduate, pay close attention to ALL deadlines
published by the Graduate School. Masters theses must be presented for "first submission" by the
published deadline. The thesis must be defended successfully before it can be submitted. Plan
ahead! This process is initiated through a DocuSign process that starts with an email to the
graduate coordinator.

When planning the timeline towards the defense, work backwards from the target date to be sure you
have enough time to accomplish all tasks. Prior to setting a defense date, be sure to allow adequate
time for all committee members to read your document and provide feedback - two weeks minimum
is a good rule of thumb. Your advisor will have provided feedback on prior drafts of the document
before you circulate it to the rest of the committee. Make all edits and submit it to committee members
for approval. All committee members must sign a Thesis Defense Clearance Form to affirm the
student is approved for defense. This must be done prior to scheduling a room for defense through
the Graduate Coordinator or Administrative Assistant. This is a DocuSign process initiated by the
student. Once the date is set, the Advisor must notify the department, via email, of the proposed oral
defense date no later than 10 business days (Spring Break included) prior to the scheduled date.
The email should include the document title, names of committee members, and location, date and
time of the oral presentation. Also, no later than 10 business days prior to the scheduled defense,
the student must place a copy of their thesis document for public inspection in TUR3141. This
document must be properly formatted in accordance with the Graduate School guidelines with all
tables, figures, front matter, abstract, etc.
Students are responsible for observing all published deadlines in order to graduate in a given
semester. Students must be registered for a minimum of 3 credits of GEO6791 in the semester they
graduate (Fall or Spring). Remember that most faculty are only paid Aug 15 - May 15 and may
not be available for Summer defenses. Plan accordingly.
Defenses are now available via Zoom or Teams online, in person in a classroom, or in a hybrid
format. The decision is ultimately up to the student. Any online defenses must have a public
presentation with the meeting listing available ahead of the meeting.
Students should schedule a Graduation Check with the Graduate Coordinator at least two
semesters prior to the semester they plan to graduate.

[[page 9]]
8

Master's Program Course Requirements
CH Course Notes
2 GEO5920 Colloquium * Must attend 2 semesters, and it is recommended during the first year.
* Students may choose to register for credit in a later semester, but they
must maintain letter of attendance & grade, which is required to
register for credit.
* Students must present their thesis during designated poster session
before graduating.
3 GEO6118 Contemporary
Geographic Thought
Required Course to be taken at UF for all graduate students. No
Waivers permitted.
3 One Quantitative Methods
Course.
Choose From:
GEO6160 Intro Quant
Methods
GEO6161 Intermediate
Quant Methods
* To be taken the first fall semester if possible.
* If GEO6160 taken previously, take GEO6161 Intermediate Quant first
spring semester.
3 or 4 One Techniques Course
(in addition to coursework
from previous degree)

GEO5945 Field Methods in Geography
GEO6451 Medical Geography
GEO6938 Advanced Remote Sensing
GEO6938 GIS Programming
GIS 6456C Appl. GIS for Disease Ecology and Zoonoses
GIS5028C Advanced Air Photo Interpretation
GIS5038C Remote Sensing
GIS5107C Geog Info Sys Research
GIS6104 Spatial Networks
GEO6455 Advanced Study Design in Medical Geography
MET6752 Atmospheric Data Analysis
Others, get approval from graduate coordinator & advisor.
3 GEA/GEO/GIS/MET Take at least 1 additional course (3CH) in Geography that does not
count for another requirement. (MUST BE A COURSE, NOT READING
HOURS)
3 NOT GEA/GEO/GIS/MET Take 3 CH outside of the department, taught by a non-geographer.
3 or 6 GEO6971 Thesis Hours Must take a minimum of 3 CH in semester graduating; a maximum of 6
CH count towards 30 hours for degree.
21 Minimum CH in
GEA/GEO/GIS/MET
A minimum of 21 of the 30 credit hours must be in Geography
(GEA/GEO/GIS/MET).
Each student is required to complete a focus area specific seminar.

Note: a) only 12 hours of GEO6905 can count towards degree
b) an officially declared minor is not required
c) GEO6938 is a generic number - this number will change once the instructor has applied for and received a "real"
course number and it is added to the catalog
d) Be sure ALL GEO6938 Special Topics courses have actual titles before graduation
e) For a list of all "on the books" courses offered by our department in the current year, see
http://gradcatalog.ufl.edu/content.php?catoid=12&navoid=2636
f) If you had any requirements waived (e.g. Quant Methods) you must make up the required number of CH with other,
additional GEO, GIS, GEA, MET courses from the Geography program. A course being waived does NOT waive the CH
requirement for those Geography hours.
g) if a student progresses from MA/MS to PhD within UF Geography, the focus area seminar requirement can carry over.

[[page 10]]
9

Requirements for the Doctor of Philosophy Degree

We encourage doctoral students to finish their program in 4-5 years. We often prioritize students for
funding according to their progress towards the degree. Failure to graduate within 5 years of
advancing to candidacy means that you will have to retake comprehensive exams and/or pass
another proposal defense. Coursework that is more than 7 years old cannot be counted towards the
degree. The components that comprise the Ph.D. degree include 90 hours of coursework, oral and
written comprehensive examinations, a public oral defense of the dissertation research proposal, a
presentation of the research at a departmental colloquium after ABD status has been attained, the
production of a dissertation, and the public oral defense of the dissertation.

Steps Towards Candidacy

During years 1 and 2 in the Ph.D. program, most coursework is completed. Then, students work
towards becoming Ph.D. Candidates. Candidacy (ABD status) is attained after the following have
been achieved:
1. The satisfactory completion of written and oral Qualifying or Comprehensive Exams.
2. The satisfactory preparation and public oral defense of a dissertation research proposal.
3. The satisfactory completion of all Ph.D. course requirements (save for research hours - GEO7980)
and the removal of any "Incompletes" (I grades) from the transcript.
We expect students to obtain ABD status prior to beginning the fourth year in the program.

Comprehensive Exam

The Comprehensive or Qualifying Exam tests your knowledge and understanding of geographic
philosophy, theory, models, concepts, findings, and methodology. Minor subject area(s) are tested
through questions submitted through the Minor Representative on your committee. There are written
and oral portions to the exam, which should be taken by the end of the fifth/beginning of the sixth
semester to remain on track in the program, but may be taken as early as the supervisory committee
deems the student ready. Students should consult with all members of their Committee in the
semester prior to the exam in order to identify the strengths and weaknesses of their current
background and preparation. Each committee member chooses how they wish to help the student
prepare for the exam - it is not mandatory that the student be furnished with sample questions or a
readings list.

At the beginning of the semester when the exam is taken, the Advisor must email all Geography
faculty members stating the general and specific fields of interest, as well as soliciting questions.
Questions relating directly to the student's proposed plan of research are not to be asked at this time.
Each member of the Supervisory Committee may submit questions. These are given to the Advisor
who will administer the exam. Usually a student answers questions from one faculty member per day.
The student will answer questions over a four to five-day period (usually 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.). Exam
conditions are established by each committee member (e.g., open-book, etc.). Plagiarism is a serious
offense and any student found to commit plagiarism is subject to disciplinary action such as failure of
the exam and/or being reported to the Student Honor Council for possible disciplinary action.

[[page 11]]
10

After at least 2 weeks have passed, an oral defense of the written answers will be undertaken.
Students cannot proceed to the proposal defense prior to achieving a Satisfactory Pass for their
Comprehensive Exams.
Possible Outcomes:
(a) Satisfactory Pass - proceed to next step
(b) Conditional Pass - must do additional work
(c) Fail- withdraw from Ph.D. program or retake exam
All exam documents are managed through DocuSign by the graduate
coordinator and initiated with an email from the advisor.

Proposal Defense

The dissertation proposal should be submitted to your Advisor and, upon the Advisor's approval, to
the Committee members, 1-6 months after the Comprehensive or Qualifying exam. When ALL
members of your committee agree, the Advisor will schedule, and announce via e-mail to all
Geography faculty and graduate students, a public oral defense of the proposal. All Supervisory
Committee members must participate in this defense.

Possible outcomes:
(a) Acceptable - only minor revisions are required and will be approved by your Advisor.
(b) Conditional Acceptance - substantial revisions needed which are to be approved by the entire
committee.
(c) Unacceptable - proposal must be substantially rewritten and defended within six months.

To be on track in the program, students should pass their proposal defense and attain ABD status by
the end of their third year in the Ph.D. program. Once the dissertation proposal is approved, the
student must inform the Graduate Coordinator or Administrative Assistant who will then prepare the
necessary paperwork for the student to enter Doctoral Candidacy. Between admission to Candidacy
and graduation at least two terms must pass if the candidate is in full-time residence, or 1 year if the
candidate is less than full time. In addition, students must graduate within 5 years of becoming ABD,
or exams must be retaken.

Completion of the Dissertation

The remainder of the program will be devoted to research and writing the dissertation. University
regulations discourage changes in topic after admission to Candidacy. Any substantial changes in the
proposed dissertation research must be approved by the student's Ph.D. Supervisory Committee. The
completed dissertation should demonstrate the ability of the student to perform independent research
and to present findings and interpretations in a clear, grammatically correct style. The dissertation
must make an original contribution to the discipline of Geography and be of publishable quality. It can
follow a research paper format (minimum 3 papers with overall Introduction and Conclusions
chapters) or mongraph thesis format, and should be prepared according to the requirements of the
University of Florida Graduate School. The Ph.D. Supervisory Committee must judge the finished
dissertation as being ready for defense before the final oral exam (defense) is scheduled. All
members of the Supervisory Committee will carefully read the dissertation and provide feedback.
Students must plan well in advance to give committee members time to read the completed
dissertation - two weeks minimum is a good rule of thumb. Make all edits and get the thesis
clearance defense form signed by all committee members stating you are cleared to set a defense

[[page 12]]
11

date. Do this before you approach the Graduate Coordinator or Administrative Assistant to schedule a
room for defense.

After submitting a complete dissertation draft and completing all other prescribed work for the degree,
the candidate will be given an (oral) final examination by his/her Supervisory Committee. Before a
date can be set for the oral defense:

1. A complete copy of the dissertation must be received and reviewed by ALL committee
members, who must sign the Thesis Defense Clearance Form to affirm the student is
approved for defense. This is a DocuSign form requested by the student to the GC.
2. AFTER this document has been signed, a student can start the process of setting a defense
date with the supervisory committee and reserving a location with the assistance of the
Graduate Coordinator or departmental administration staff.
3. Once a date is set, the Advisor must notify the department, via email, of the proposed oral
defense date no later than 10 business days (including Spring Break) prior to the scheduled
date. The email should include the document title, names of committee members, and location
and date of the oral presentation.
4. Also, no later than 10 business days prior to the scheduled defense, the student must place a
copy of their document for public inspection in TUR3141 and/or in approved departmental
online collaborative spaces such as Canvas or Teams. This document must be properly
formatted with all tables, figures, front matter, abstract, etc.
5. All Supervisory Committee members must participate in the Final Examination.

At the beginning of the public oral exam, the Ph.D. candidate will summarize the major objectives,
rationale, methodology, and findings of the dissertation in a brief presentation. The candidate will then
answer any questions from the committee, attending faculty, and students. After a satisfactory
defense, all Supervisory Committee members must sign the signature pages and the Final
Examination Form, which are obtained from the Graduate Coordinator or departmental
administrative staff. These may be retained by the advisor until acceptable completion of corrections.
This process is initiated through a DocuSign process that starts with an email to the graduate
coordinator from the advisor.

Students are responsible for observing all published deadlines to graduate in each semester,
so be sure to check with the Graduate School. As a reminder, most faculty are on 9 month
appointments, Aug 15 - May 15, and are not available for summer defenses. Plan accordingly.

FINAL GRADUATION CHECK. Students should schedule a Graduation Check with the
Graduate Coordinator at least two semesters prior to the semester they plan to graduate.

Defenses are now available via Zoom or Teams online, in person in a classroom, or in a hybrid
format. The decision is ultimately up to the student. Any online defenses must have a public
presentation with the meeting listing available ahead of the meeting.

[[page 13]]
12

Ph.D. Program Course Requirements (90 hours minimum)
CH Course Notes
30 Credits from your Master's
(whether it was in Geography
or not) - this is up to 30
credits, and not required
* If courses were from a different graduate program at UF or from
a different institution, these will need to be transferred into the
Geography program, which requires your FINAL OFFICIAL
TRANSCRIPT to complete the necessary process (UF
transcripts do not list individual courses, and these details are
required).
* Confirm that courses were taken within 7 years of admission to
doctoral program and that all 30 CH were awarded with a letter
grade higher than a C (S/U grades don't transfer).
* Bring documentation to the Graduate Coordinator or
Administrative Assistant to complete the process (complete
process in year one).
4 GEO5920 Colloquium - 1 CH
per term.
* Must attend 4 semesters, and it is recommended that this is
done during years 1 and 2.
* Students may choose to register for credit in a later semester,
but they must maintain letter of attendance & grade, which is
required to register for credit.
* Students must give a professional job talk on their dissertation
research after becoming ABD, and only after at least 2/3 of
research is complete (or 2 of 3 papers). If the presentation is
given without clear completion of research, the student will be
required to present again at a later date.
3 GEO6118 Contemporary
Geographic Thought
If taken previously at UF, the requirement is met. It cannot be
waived otherwise.
6 Two Quant Methods Courses.
GEO6161 Intermediate Quant.
Methods Geog AND GEO6166
Advanced Quant Methods for
Spatial Analysis (6 CH)

NOTE: IF you have not taken
GEO6160 Intro Quantitative
Methods Geography or its
equivalent previously, you
must take this course before
starting the sequence.
* The Intermediate and Advanced Quantitative Methods
sequence is the minimum requirement for doctoral students.

* The sequence should be taken in years 1 & 2.

* If you have not taken the Intro Quant Methods Geography or its
equivalent, which is a prerequisite, you will be required to take
this in addition, before taking the sequence.

[[page 14]]
13

6-8 Two methods/techniques
courses in Geography
(in addition to coursework from
previous degrees)

Choose from the following list:
GEO5945 Field Methods in Geography
GEO6938 Advanced Remote Sensing
GEO6938 GIS Programming
GIS 6456C Appl. GIS for Disease Ecology and Zoonoses
GIS5038C Remote Sensing
GIS5107C Geog Info Sys Research
GIS6104 Spatial Networks
MET6752 Atmospheric Data Analysis
GIS5028C Advanced Air Photo Interpretation
GEO6455 Advanced Study Design in Medical Geography
GEO6168 Spatial Econometrics
Additional GEO/GEA/GIS/MET, get approval from graduate
coordinator & advisor.
6 GEA/GEO/GIS/MET Take at least 2 additional courses in Geography department that
do not double other requirements. (MUST BE A COURSE, NOT
READING HOURS)
3 GEO6119 Proposal Writing in
Geography

9 NOT GEA/GEO/GIS/MET Take 9 credit hours minimum (21 hours maximum) outside of
Geography. The expectation is that this course is not taught by a
Geography faculty member.
3 + GEO7979 Advanced Research * Register in semester taking comprehensive exams and
defending proposal.
* Unlimited credits count towards degree
3 + GEO7980 Doctoral Research * Must be ABD to register
* Unlimited credits count towards degree.
* Must register for 3 hours in semester graduating (fall or spring).
90 Hours needed for Degree Be sure ALL GEO6938 Special Topics courses have actual titles!
39 Minimum GEA/GEO/GIS/MET A minimum of 39 of the 90 credit hours must be in Geography
(GEA/GEO/GIS/MET).

Each student is required to complete a focus area specific
seminar.

Each student is required to take an additional seminar.

Notes: a) only 12 hours of GEO6905 can count towards degree
b) a minor is not required by either the University or CLAS
c) GEO6938 is a generic number - subject to change
d) Be sure ALL GEO6938 Special Topics courses have actual titles
e) For a list of all "on the books" courses offered by our department in the current year, see
http://gradcatalog.ufl.edu/content.php?catoid=12&navoid=2636
f) If you had any requirements waived due to already having fulfilled course requirements, you must make up
the required number of credit hours with other additional GEO, GIS, GEA, MET courses from the Geography
program.
g) If the focus area seminar requirement was completed during a MA/MS in UF Geography, it can be counted
towards the seminar requirement for the PhD.

[[page 15]]
14

Appendices

Appendix I: Copyright release for dissertations

Instructions for seeking copyright permissions for use of data in your dissertation from published work
from others and permission to publish your own chapters if published ahead of submitting your thesis
or dissertation.

First, if you require permission to republish figures or data from another paper, you need to request
that permission. This is often done with an email to the editor or a copyright license generating
website. This example uses two requests associated a 2019 dissertation. In that work, the graduate
student required figure pieces from a published paper by a previous graduate student. We had to
request permission for a Journal of Wildlife Management article that required a License Registration
with John Wiley and Sons. Note, a faculty member was the corresponding author on the paper and
requested the permission; the student needing the information can also make the request. This
license is numbered and specific to the paper requested.

If you need permission to publish your own work, you need to request that permission as well. You
may have published open access, like PLOS, where that is not required. You may require a license
agreement as described above. The second example shows requested permission for a Journal of
Wildlife Diseases article lead by a graduate student and the work was published ahead of completing
the dissertation. In that case, we wrote to the editor-in-chief, and the editor returned an email granting
permission. That is illustrated in email correspondence provided and again specific to the paper and
the usage. Each journal will require some form of copyright release if not Open Access.

In both cases, the PDFs of the approval, license or email, are submitted to the graduate school and
are not contained directly within the dissertation. Those instructions come from the graduate school.
Grad Students - It is your responsibility to ensure you have permission to publish your own
work and the work of others. Please start this process in time to make grad school submission
deadlines. Online licenses, like Wiley and Sons was nearly instant. Emails to editors can take days, if
not longer. Note - the examples here are from a MedGeo student's dissertation. The process is
the same regardless of sub-field or dissertation format.

[[page 16]]
15

EXAMPLE 1: Online License

[[page 17]]
16

EXAMPLE 2: Email from Editor-in-Chief of a Journal

Appendix II: Selecting 6905 or 6938 hours - a note on summer registration

GEO6905 Individual Research - Letter grade- you can carry up to 5 hours in each semester and only
12 hours can be applied toward a degree. This is a letter grade course. After some discussion at our
faculty retreat, this course is rarely used. It is on the books, if needed, but work with your advisor if it
is appropriate. If you plan to take it, note you cannot take more than 5 hours in each term.

GEO6938 - Special Topics - if you do this, you need to arrange title and specific plan with your
advisor (or the instructor, if not advisor). This is a letter grade course. Keep in mind you need to work
with Crystal to ensure this has a formal title on your transcript and that has to happen before your
graduate check/audit. Work with your advisor and Crystal if you are putting this on the books (or any
other faculty member that may be leading your 6938).

MASTERS - GEO6971 Research for Master's Thesis - This is an S/U grading scheme and MS/MA
students can apply a total of 6 hours toward the degree, but you can carry more on your transcript, if
needed. You must be enrolled in 3 when in your graduating semester.

PhD - GEO7979 - Advanced Research - This is an S/U grading scheme and unlimited credits count
toward degree (not replacing any core course work). You can enroll any semester and must be
enrolled in 3 when you take your comps and defending proposal. This is for Pre-ABD. You will shift to
7980 after becoming ABD.

Please note, any of these courses could be used in any semester, not just summer. Previously,
confusion has arisen in planning summer courses. Additional information is in the handbook and the
graduate school catalog for Geography (https://catalog.ufl.edu/graduate/courses-
az/geography/index.html?find=GEO%206905).

[[page 18]]
17

For summer enrollment, if you are a TA with an assignment from the department chair - make sure
you enroll in the appropriate requirement from your LOA for the term. If you are a 12-month
appointment and need 6 hours use the above, or in any combination with other classes that may be
offered in summer, to total the 6 hours.