[[page 1]]
ECON 301D Winter 2020
1
INTERMEDIATE MACROECONOMICS
MW 2:30-4:20pm
MEB 103

Instructor: Zinan Wang (wangzn@uw.edu)

Office Hours: Monday 1:20-2:20pm and Friday 4:00-5:00pm, Savery Hall 319F

Course Website: https://canvas.uw.edu/courses/1354279

Course Overview: This course develops the tools of modern macroeconomic theory in the context of the global
economy and explains the determination of aggregate output; of employment and prices; the tools of monetary and
fiscal policy used by governments to fight inflation and unemployment and to promote growth in the economy. The
purpose of this course is to explain macroeconomic theory and also to use it as a framework for discussing the current
state of the US and world economy and for analyzing recent economic policy issues.

Learning Objectives for Econ 301:

- Understand the importance of microeconomics as a foundation for macroeconomics
- Understand how aggregate economic activity is measured at the level of a nation
- Understand how basic models of the economy summarize and explain the interactions between these main
macroeconomic measures, output, employment, and inflation
- Understand what causes economic activity to fluctuate over the years, from recessions to full employment
and back
- Understand the role of government in trying to smooth out these fluctuations
- Understand the differences between adjustment in the short run and adjustment in the long run
- Understand the insights conveyed by the various schools of thought -Keynesian economics with sticky
prices, classical economics with flexible prices, and various syntheses of the two
- Understand how the economy grows in the very long run through capital accumulation and technological
progress
- Understand specific concepts like dynamics and expectations

Textbook: "Macroeconomics", by Olivier Blanchard (Pearson, 7th edition)

Course Outline:
Introduction
Ch 1 and 2
The Short Run
The goods market (ch 3)
Financial markets (ch 4)
Goods and financial markets: the IS-LM model (ch 5)
Financial markets II: the extended IS-LM model (ch 6)
The Medium Run
The labor market (ch 7)
The Philips curve, the natural rate of unemployment, and inflation (ch 8)
From the short to the medium run: the IS-LM PC model (ch 9)
The Long Run
The facts of growth (ch 10)
Saving, capital accumulation and output (ch 11)
Technological progress and growth (ch 12)
Technological progress: the short, the medium, and the long run (ch 13)

(If time permitting, part of the chapters of The Open Economy in the textbook may also be covered.)

[[page 2]]
ECON 301D Winter 2020
2
COURSE REQUIREMENTS

ATTENDING LECTURES: It is strongly recommended that you attend lectures. If you do miss class, you're
responsible for the material that you miss and you should get notes from a fellow student.

LECTURE NOTES (SLIDES): Lecture notes will be posted on the course website regularly.

READINGS: It is advised to do the reading of the corresponding textbook chapters before the class covering the
specific material. You are also advised to check the Economist or the Financial Times where current economic issues
are analyzed as they occur.

ASSIGNMENTS: There will be 4 assignments during the quarter (the questions will be assigned and posted online
one week ahead). Completed assignments must be turned in at the beginning of the section.

EXAMS: There will be 2 non-cumulative exams.
Dates: Exam1: Monday, February 10, 2020 in class
Exam2: Tuesday, March 17, 2020, 2:30pm, MEB 103

GRADE: The following weighting will be applied:
Assignments: 24% (6% each) Exam1: 36% Exam2: 40%

The grading policy of the Department of Economics sets the upper boundary for the median grade of this course at
3.1.

REMARK: If you have any difficulty with the material (or any problem), feel free to see your instructor during office
hours as soon as possible because the material covered in this course becomes more complex overtime and is based
on your overall understanding from week to week. It is thus essential to read the chapters assigned in the textbook on
a regular basis and to work out the practice problems. Tutoring by the upper class EUB students will be available
at regular hours in Savery 328. You can check the schedule posted on the door or available on the EUB web page
at http://depts.washington.edu/ecnboard/eub-tutoring/

PREREQUISITES: The prerequisite for ECON 301, Intermediate Macroeconomics, is ECON 300 and the
prerequisites for ECON 300, Intermediate Microeconomics, are MATH 112 or MATH 124, and both ECON 200 and
ECON 201. Students must NOT take ECON 300 and ECON 301 CONCURRENTLY as some of the theory developed
at the beginning of ECON 301 is based on theory taught in ECON 300.

[[page 3]]
ECON 301D Winter 2020
3
Course Policy
Examination rules
I Exam Absence Policy
1. If you are unable to make it to an exam period due to illness or another serious unexpected
happening, do the following:
i. Contact your instructor the same day to notify him/her that you are not able to take the exam and
why.
ii. If you missed the exam for health reasons, you need to show as soon as possible to your
instructor a valid medical note issued by a medical professional, on the original exam date. There is no
flexibility on this matter. The arrangement for making up the missing credits may vary from instructor to
instructor (make-up exam etc.).
iii. If there was some other reason for missing the exam (car accident, meteor shower etc.) come
and see your instructor to explain these reasons - you will need to show proper valid documentation. Not
waking up or missing your bus/plane is not an acceptable excuse.
2. If you know that you are going to be away due to an university related activity (e.g. sport, debate), let
your instructor know well in advance (preferably in the first week of the quarter) so that arrangements for
make up can be made upon presentation of proper valid documentation.
II Exam Taking Rules
1. Material allowed during a closed book exam.
i. All books, papers, notebooks etc. must be placed inside your bag (backpack etc.) and the bag
must be securely and fully closed. If you do not have a bag, you must place all your material out of your
reach (classroom window sill etc.)
Note that individual instructors may have specific policies (open book exams etc.)
ii. Only keep writing tools and basic calculators (i.e. simple 4-functions calculators). Graphing
calculators or calculators with memories will not be allowed. Sharing of calculators is not permitted.
iii. Cellular phones must be turned off before entering the class and placed in your closed bag (not
in your pocket). You are not allowed to use a cellular phone during an exam. Doing so will result in the
termination of your exam time (your exam being taken from you at this point). Likewise i-pads or i-pods
(or similar devices) are not allowed. The use of personal computers is not allowed during an exam.
iv. Baseball caps with visors and any kinds of headgear hiding your eyes are not permitted.
2. Attendance and special accommodation
i. You are expected not to leave the room during the exam except in case of emergency. This
includes restroom use; be sure to use the restroom before the beginning of the exam.
ii. If you arrive late to an exam, you cannot expect to get extra time after the official end of the
exam to make up for the missing time at the beginning.
iii. If you have a documented disability, please show your instructor your documentation from the
Office of Disability Resources for Students on the first day of class, so that your instructor can make all the
necessary arrangements if you wish to take your exam in a separate place.

3. Academic honesty

i. Exams are individual work and cheating will not be tolerated. Students must not glance at
their neighbors' exams. Students must not change their answers after they have turned their exam in.

[[page 4]]
ECON 301D Winter 2020
4
ii. Check the student handbook for further information about cheating, plagiarism etc. Cheating
of any kind may result in expulsion from the university. The Department of Economics will follow university
policy in case of academic dishonesty. It is strongly recommended that you review the Dept. of Economics
policy at:

https://econ.washington.edu/policy-academic-conduct

Academic integrity is the cornerstone of the Department's rules for student conduct and evaluation
of student learning. Students accused of academic misconduct will be referred directly to the Office of
Community Standards and Student Conduct for disciplinary action pursuant to the Student Conduct Code
and, if found guilty, will be subject to sanctions. Sanctions range from a disciplinary warning, to academic
probation, to immediate dismissal from the Department and the University, depending on the seriousness
of the misconduct. Dismissal can be, and has been, applied even for first offenses. Moreover, a grade of
zero can be assigned by the instructor for the course.

Homework Policy

1. Write all your answers ON THE HOMEWORK SHEETS that you have downloaded.

2. Staple all the sheets in the correct order.

3. DO NOT COPY the answers from each other - this can easily be detected when the same mistakes
appear and the same sentences are written! Indeed you are allowed and even encouraged to work together,
but you must part from each other and write you answers alone. Don't forget to show your intermediate
calculations.

E-mail

Please check your UW email regularly for the announcements of the class and use your UW account for
any communication with your instructor. Emails with unknown addresses will be discarded unread.