[[page 1]]
Introduction to Responsible Conduct of Research for Physics Students
Each physicist is a citizen of the community of science. Each
shares responsibility for the welfare of this community. Science is
best advanced when there is mutual trust, based upon honest behavior,
throughout the community. Acts of deception, or any other acts that
deliberately compromise the advancement of science, are unacceptable.
Honesty must be regarded as the cornerstone of ethics in science.
Professional integrity in the formulation, conduct, and reporting of physics
activities reflects not only on the reputations of individual
physicists and their organizations, but also on the image and credibility of
the physics profession as perceived by scientific colleagues, government
and the public. It is important that the tradition of ethical behavior be
carefully maintained and transmitted with enthusiasm to future
generations.
-Statement by the American Physical Society
http://www.aps.org/policy/statements/02_2.cfm

As you prepare yourself to join the world-leading research effort at the University of Illinois, you should
understand that the university and your research colleagues expect you to maintain the highest
standards in the responsible and ethical conduct of your research. As Nobel Laureate Max Delbrück put
it, "In the cathedral of science, every brick is important." The work you do as an undergraduate
researcher will contribute to the work done by others who will follow you, and they must be able to rely
on the honesty and soundness of your work. The University's statement on research integrity spells out
in detail what is expected of you, and we urge you to familiarize yourself with the institution's formal
policies and procedures.
The guidance about the responsible conduct of research that you receive from your research supervisors
and mentors is fundamental to your training as a scientist or engineer. However, you cannot expect your
research supervisor to anticipate every problem or preemptively address every issue. As a responsible
researcher, you must inform yourself of the professional obligations and legal requirements involved in
carrying out research. Do not hesitate to ask questions to help you gain an instinctive feel for what is
proper and to develop deeper insight into the issues involved in conducting research.

Responsible conduct of research
Science ethics rests on six fundamental principles-honesty, rigor, skepticism, openness, generosity, and
social responsibility.
* Science requires its practitioners to be honest-do not fabricate, misrepresent, falsify,
manipulate, or destroy scientific data, calculations, or analysis. The results of your work must be
maintained in an unbiased, permanent record that is available for others to see and evaluate.
You are obligated to correct errors in the scientific record as soon as you become aware of
them. You must also refrain from claiming expertise or credentials that you do not have.
* Science requires its practitioners to be careful-follow protocols exactly and apply rigorous
standards to all work that you do. Take no shortcuts and change no procedures without the
knowledge and explicit permission of your research supervisor.
* Science requires its practitioners to be skeptical-do not want to believe so much in some
result, yours or someone else's, that you lose your objectivity and critical thinking.

[[page 2]]
* Science requires its practitioners to be open-you must be willing to share data, methods,
theories, insights, and equipment with other researchers. You must allow others to see your
work and evaluate it. You must respond promptly and constructively to questions about your
work. You must be open to criticism and accept it graciously.
* Science requires its practitioners to be generous-you must give credit to others for their ideas
and prior work and be scrupulous to avoid even inadvertent piracy or plagiarism. You should
recognize that science is a cooperative social endeavor and assist others when they ask for your
help. You must always treat others with respect and candor.
* Science requires its practitioners to be responsible-you must anticipate the social
consequences of your research and prevent harm to the subjects of experiments and to the
public at large. You must safeguard the wellbeing of your labmates and be mindful of the social
welfare of anyone involved in or affected by your research.
Scientific progress depends on truthfulness and full disclosure, accurate and complete record-keeping,
and free and open exchange of data and interpretations, but honest error is inevitable. If science is
allowed to function as it should, it is self-correcting, as new methods and ideas supplant previous
inaccuracies and errors.
But sometimes there's a thin line between honest error and misconduct, just as there is a thin line
between being bold and being reckless. If you are uncertain about any aspect of your obligations as a
researcher, you should seek the guidance of your professors, research supervisors, and mentors. It is
their responsibility to assist you as you undertake research and learn to fulfill your duties as an ethical
physicist. They can answer your questions about your responsibilities and the practices in place at the
University of Illinois to ensure the integrity of the research enterprise. Contact information for people
outside your research group who can help you resolve problems is given at the end of this document.
What sorts of ethical dilemmas might you encounter as a young scientist? In the next sections, we'll look
at five areas where beginning researchers often have questions.

Data selection, rejection, and treatment
Forging or fabricating data and falsifying or inventing results clearly constitute egregious scientific
misconduct. In some physics research, however, certain data are routinely excluded or selected for
further analysis. This practice is entirely acceptable, provided all original data are retained and any
selection, treatment or exclusion of data is disclosed. Thus you must preserve all data that you take in a
permanent record. As soon as you begin working with a research group, ask your research supervisor to
show you the proper way to record data and document all your work.
The manipulation or enhancement of digital images is becoming a huge issue in the ethical reporting of
research results, and scientific societies and journal editors are working to clarify what are acceptable
practices and what constitutes misconduct. As in all other kinds of data selection or treatment, the
original pre-enhancement images must be preserved in the research record.
If you have questions about why certain data are selected or excluded, or how and why images are
enhanced, ask your research supervisor for clarification.

Using and referencing others' scholarly work
In the course of your studies, you have learned that plagiarism, the reproduction or close imitation of
the ideas or language of others in your written work without attribution, is academic misconduct. A
related form of research misconduct is piracy, the unauthorized reproduction or use of the ideas, data,
or methods of others without adequate permission or acknowledgment. Both plagiarism and piracy are
egregious breaches of the responsible conduct of research.
Plagiarism is generally thought to apply to the written misuse of others' ideas, images, figures, or tables,
but some scientists believe it can also apply to researchers' reuse of their own previously published

[[page 3]]
reports or papers without proper acknowledgment of the source. This practice is referred to as self-
plagiarism or duplicate publication. Research-based writing is filled with rules of which you may not be
aware or know exactly how to follow. Sometimes you may not know what must be cited and what is
considered "common knowledge." You should always seek guidance from your research supervisor
about proper citation practices in your field.
Piracy is the unauthorized use of others ideas, materials, data, or methods without permission in the
deceitful attempt to pass them off as one's own. Particular care must be taken in avoiding personal
benefit from participating in peer review of the work of others.

Ownership of intellectual property and authorship practices
Much of the physics research that is conducted at the University of Illinois is paid for by grants from
federal agencies-the National Science Foundation, the National Institutes of Health, the US
Department of Energy, NASA, and several US Department of Defense agencies. Federal regulations
require the recipients of federal funding to adhere to the highest standards of ethical conduct, to
preserve and protect the research record, and to share their results with the research community and
the general public.
Any results or data obtained by University of Illinois researchers, including those paid from federal
grants, are the property of the university. When you leave your research group, all your original research
records must be left with your research supervisor, who will maintain the data on behalf of the
university. Copies may be taken, with your supervisor's permission, but you may not remove the original
data and records.
Disagreements on attribution of credit and responsibility for collaborative work cause many complaints
among researchers. You should discuss any of these concerns with your research supervisor early in
your project and reach an understanding of the role and responsibilities of each person in the research
group and the group's authorship practices.
Different groups have different practices on authorship, and it is up to the research supervisor to decide
what is published, when it is published, and who will be given authorship. The decision of the research
supervisor is final; a student may not independently disseminate research results in any form without
the explicit written permission of the research supervisor.

Conflicts of interest
Conflicts of interest arise when other considerations interfere with the objective conduct of research
and accurate and full reporting of results. Sources of conflict may be personal obligations, professional
or financial relationships, and philosophical or intellectual predispositions. Part of your duty as a
responsible researcher is to be aware of and avoid potential conflicts that could affect your objectivity
and independence.

Communications and human relationships
Physics is increasingly an international, collaborative enterprise, and you may find yourself working side
by side with people whose backgrounds and experiences are very different from your own. The
American Physical Society has made strong statements that "full participation by everyone...is important
to the health and future achievements in our discipline." In addition, the University of Illinois' Student
Code, Article 1, articulates clear expectations that students adhere to the university's fundamental
commitment to academic freedom, equality of opportunity, and human dignity.
We are very proud of the longstanding supportive, collegial atmosphere of Physics Illinois, and we
expect you to do your part to maintain and strengthen this essential intellectual environment. Treat
everyone in your research group with courtesy and respect. Be welcoming and inclusive of all members,
regardless of their roles. Be aware of your own unconscious biases and the unintended consequences of

[[page 4]]
thoughtless actions and strive to overcome them. If you encounter problems, address them early and
objectively. Seek help if you need it to resolve misunderstandings or differences of opinion.
Next steps
Welcome to the world of physics research-we are glad you have chosen to join our community! We
expect you to fulfill your duties in accordance with the highest standards of integrity. We encourage you
to learn more about the responsible conduct of research through discussions with your research
supervisors and mentors, through additional readings and training, and through self-reflection. Do not
hesitate to ask questions or request assistance in resolving problems-it is the obligation of all physicists
to help you and to ensure th e w ellbeing of our community.
Where to go for help
Physics Department Head, Matthias Grosse Perdekamp, Room 211, Loomis Laboratory
Associate Head for Undergraduate Programs, Yann Chemla, Room 231, Loomis
University Research Integrity Office, Christopher Lehman, Swanlund Administration Building, 4th Floor,
rso
fficer@illinois.edu
Additional resources
University Ethics and Compliance Office
University of Illinois Policy and Procedures on Integrity in Research and Publication
University of Illinois Student Code of Conduct
Office of the Vice Chancellor for Research's Resources for Research Integrity and Ethics
The Office of Technology Management at Illinois' Inventors Handbook (pp. 6-11 on intellectual property)
For further reading:
Committee on Science, Engineering, and Public Policy; Institute of Medicine; Policy and Global Affairs;
National Academy of Sciences, National Academy of Engineering, On Being a Scientist: A Guide to
Responsible Conduct in Research, 3rd ed. (Washington DC, The National Academies Press, 2009).
Office of Science and Technology Policy, Executive Office of the President, "Federal Policy on Research
Misconduct," Federal Register 65, No. 235, Wednesday, December 6, 2000/Notices.
D. Scott-Lichter and the Editorial Policy Committee, Council of Science Editors, CSE's White Paper on
Promoting Integrity in Scientific Journal Publication, 2012 Update. 3rd revised ed. (Council of Science
Editors, Wheat Ridge, CO, 2012). (accessed 02/23/2016).
Adil E. Shamoo and David B. Resnik, Responsible Conduct of Research, 2nd ed. (Oxford University Press,
Oxford, 2009); doi:10.1093/acprof:oso/9780195368246.001.0001.
"Report of the Investigation Committee on the Possibility of Scientific Misconduct in the Work of
Hendrik Schön and Coauthors," Lucent Technologies (2002).
James Woodward and David Goodstein, "Conduct, misconduct and the structure of science," American
Scientist 84, 479 (1996).
Natasha Gilbert, "Science journals crack down on image manipulation," Nature News, published online
9 October 2009; doi:10.1038/news.2009.911.
Brian C. Martinson, Melissa S. Anderson, and Raymond de Vries, "Scientists behaving badly," Nature
435, 737-738 (2009); doi:10.1038/435737a.
Up
dated 1/07/2019