[[page 1]]
Sustainability and the Built Environment
College of Design, Construction and Planning

Master of Integrated Sustainable Development
(MISD)
Handbook

[[page 2]]
2

Table of Contents
Foreword ......................................................................................... 1
Introduction ..................................................................................... 2
Resources ...............................................................................................2
Contacts .................................................................................................2
Completion of a master's degree ..........................................................2
Application for MISD ........................................................................ 3
Common Application Procedures ..........................................................3
English Proficiency Exams ......................................................................3
Master of Integrated Sustainable Development ............................. 4-5
Final Exam ..............................................................................................4
Application Procedure..................................................................................5
MISD Course Information ..............................................................8 -13
MISD Registration ..................................................................................8
Course Descriptions ...............................................................................7
General Information ....................................................................... 12
Combination Degrees ......................................................................... 12
Unsatisfactory Progress ...................................................................... 12
Frequently Asked Questions ........................................................ 13-15

[[page 3]]
A Message from the Director
Sustainability and the Built Environment (SBE) Program
College of Design, Construction and Planning (DCP)

Joining the Master's in Integrated Sustainable Development (MISD) may be the most important
decision you made towards your future career. Sustainability, resiliency, and decarbonization
knowledge and skills are in need as the industry, countries, and NGOs are focusing on climate
change. Abundant sustainability-related positions are available in the United States and across
the world.

We are proud to offer this opportunity to our students, alumni, and anyone else who is interested
in furthering their career and/or align it with the field of sustainability and resiliency and gain
insight into the global sustainability industry.

Take a moment to read this Master's Degree handbook which has been drafted to support your
success and timely graduation. Therefore, use this handbook as a quick-reference guide. Feel free
to contact me at barmagh@ufl.edu if you have questions.

With clear goals, you are about to see forward momentum in your career trajectory. Graduate and
become a proud DCP/UF alumni, come back, and share your insights with us and students, and
make an impact!

Go Gators!

B. Armaghani
Bahar Armaghani, LEED Fellow, WELL Faculty
Director, Sustainability and the Built Environment
Instructional Associate Professor
College of Design, Construction and Planning
University of Florida

[[page 4]]
4

Introduction
The Master's in Integrated Sustainable Development (MISD) students are required to read
this handbook and its supporting documentation. The student is responsible for meeting
all master's degree program requirements and satisfying all deadlines, which are published
in the Graduate School's academic calendar.

This document sets the procedures and policies to be followed by both prospective and
admitted students seeking the MISD degree, within Sustainability and the Built
Environment (SBE) in the College of Design, Construction and Planning (DCP). This handbook
is a supplement to the Graduate Catalog of the University of Florida's Graduate School and
should be read in conjunction with that document. These documents and other general
information are available as follow:

Resources:
o The Graduate Catalog is available at https://catalog.ufl.edu/graduate/.
o The Graduate School website is available at http://graduateschool.ufl.edu/.
o The Sustainability and the Built Environment program website available at
https://dcp.ufl.edu/sbe/what/graduate/
Contacts:
o The Sustainability and the Built Environment program, Director,
Bahar Armaghani. Her email address is barmagh@ufl.edu.
o The MISD's Graduate Admissions Assistant Director is Mr. Pat Dejong. His
email address is patricde@ufl.edu.

Completion of a master's degree involves two main components:

1. Complete the coursework.
* The MISD requires 30 credit hours including:
o Three required courses plus a six-credit hour Practicum, DCP
6230, (15 credit hours)
o Elective courses (15 credit hours). The available electives are
in Architecture, Construction Management, Engineering, and
Urban and Regional Planning. Select from a minimum of two
disciplines.

2. Complete a final exam.
* MISD is a non -thesis degree. The final exam consists of completing a
practicum course, DCP 6230.
* Final exams must be completed in a student's final semester.
* Non-thesis requirement, involving a research report and a professional
presentation (e.g., PowerPoint ) on a timely and significant topic
focused on resiliency , sustainability, and decarbonization in the built
environment.

[[page 5]]
Application for Admission into the MISD

Common Application Procedures:
1. Apply to the MISD (non-thesis) using the online application found at
https://admissions.ufl.edu.
a. Do not select a concentration. There are no active concentrations inside of the MISD.
b. Make sure to comply with the deadlines, which are available at
https://dcp.ufl.edu/sbe.
c. The following materials are required:
i. Transcripts from all colleges and universities attended,
ii. A current résumé or curriculum vitae,
iii. Three letters of recommendation (academics preferred; professionals accepted),
iv. A statement of purpose:
Your statement of intent should address each of the following questions:
* How have your personal background, life experiences, opportunities, leadership
skills, experiences, and challenges contributed to your interest in sustainable
development?
* Why are you interested in the sustainable development field? Include any
professional, volunteer, or internship experiences that have prepared you for
this field of study as well as your research interests and career aspirations.
* What do you expect to apply the expertise you would gain in the MISD program?
* How will UF's MISD program help you meet your professional goals?
2. Note that a B grade average (3.0 on a 4.0 scale) or better is expected.
3. Note that admissions are competitive. Merely meeting the minimum requirements does not
guarantee admission.
4. Note the application fee is $30 (plus a convenience fee when paying by credit card).
a. The fee is not waivable.
b. The fee is non-refundable.
c. Applicants should ensure they meet admissions criteria before applying.
5. Applications will be reviewed by a graduate faculty committee, and the applicants will be
notified of their acceptance.
6. Upon starting the program, each student will have a supervisory committee that consists of a
chair and a co-chair. The chair must have a graduate faculty appointment in one of the
academic units in the College of DCP. The co-chair and/or committee member must have a
graduate faculty appointment from an academic unit within the College of DCP related to the
project topic.

English Proficiency Exams
Applicants who are not citizens of a country where English is one of the official languages will need
to submit English proficiency exam scores, unless they graduated with a degree from a university
in a country where the official language is English.
* GRE is not required.
* Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) and International English Language Testing
System (IELTS) scores are both acceptable exams.
* Students may substitute the University of Florida English Language Institute (ELI) exit exam
in place of acceptable TOEFL or IELTS scores. To learn more about the ELI program, visit
https://eli.ufl.edu/.

[[page 6]]
6

Master of Integrated Sustainable Development (MISD)
The MISD is a coursework professional degree for those looking to enter or advance their career
in the sustainability industry. It requires eight courses (each three credit hours), plus six credit
hours for capstone/practicum to complete the degree. This produces a graduate who is very well
rounded in their knowledge of sustainability, ready for the industry, and pursue a PhD in
sustainability. Below is the current proposed coursework that student can select from.

MISD Advising and Career Coach
Students' success is our priority number one.
* Advising: Upon starting the first semester. Our graduate advisor and the Director meet with the
student to:
- Discuss student's goals, inspiration, and industry
- All required and elective courses reviewed with the student to help them decide what
course to take
- A road map is developed with the students for the year based on the student's interest ,
gain new skills and tools, credential, and to be competitive in the industry.
* Career Coach: At the end of the first semester, each student is paired with a career coach from
the inductor to guide them to a pathway to a successful career of their interest in the industry.
- MISD Career Coaches act as mentors, providing advice and guidance to students through
regular one-on-one meetings throughout the program year.
- Career Coaches are experts in their field, excellent listeners, communicators, and passionate
about the development of early and mid-career professionals, and assist students in building
and cultivating a personalized, industry-and-career specific network.
- SBE/MISD Green Building Learning Collaborative (GBLC) board members and other industry
leaders in sustainability are among our career coaches.
* MISD Orientation: in the first two weeks of classes, an orientation will be held for the new cohort
including the introduction, program review, expectation, advising, final research project ,
graduation, and more.

Master of Integrated Sustainable Development (M.I.S.D.)
Course Number Course Title Credits Term
Required Courses
DCP 6221 Economics of Sustainability in the Built Env. 3 SP
BCN 6584C Building Energy Modeling 3 FA
BCN 6585 Sustainable Construction 3 SP
DCP 6230 Integrated Sustainable Development Practicum 6 SU
Sub Total 15

Electives (select out of the following courses from a minimum of two disciplines)
ARC 6311C Building Information Modeling (BIM) 3 SP
ARC 6883 Vernacular Architecture and Sustainability 3 Odd SP
ARC 6621 Graduate Environmental Technology 2 3 FA
ARC6911 Architecture and Climate 3 Even SP
BCN 5905 AI and Machine Learning for Construction 3 Odd FA
BCN 6785 Construction Information System (BIM) 3 SP
BCN 6583 Sustainable Housing 3 Odd FA
BCN 6641 Value Engineering 3 SP
CGN 5605 Public Works Planning 3 SP
CGN 5606 Public Works Management 3 FA
DCP 6931 Data Science for Interior-Environment Research & Des. 3 SP

[[page 7]]
DCP 6301 WELL BLDG Strategies (WELL Practicum) 6 SP
DCP 6231C Green Building Strategies (LEED Lab) 6 FA
TTE 5006 Advanced Urban Transportation Planning 3 FA
LAA 6382 Ecological and Environmental Policy 3 FA
URP 6716 Transportation Policy & Planning 3 FA
URP 6711 Transportation and Land Use Coordination 3 SP
URP 6100 Planning Theory and History 3 SP
URP 6421 Environmental Land use Planning and Mgmt. 3 FA
URP 6541 Economic Development Planning 3 FA
FYC 6302 Sustainable Community Development 3 SP

Master's in integrated Sustainable Development
Semester 1 - Fall Term CR.
BCN 6584C Building Energy Modeling 3
elective 3
elective 3
elective 3
Total Credits = 12
Semester 2 - Spring Term CR.
DCP 6221 Economics of Sustainability in the Built Env 3
BCN 6585 Sustainable Construction 3
elective 3
elective 3
Total Credits = 12
Optional - Summer-C Term CR.
DCP 6230 Practicum 6
Total Credits = 6

GRAND TOTAL = 30

[[page 8]]
8

MISD Course Information
Required Courses:

BCN 6585, Sustainable Construction
Credits: 3, Grading Scheme: Letter
This course addresses the application of the sustainable development paradigm to the built
environment. Sustainable development includes reducing the impacts of human activities on
natural ecosystems and understanding the role these ecosystems have in the economy and on
human welfare. It involves understanding the lessons that human society can learn from natural
systems and how these lessons can help provide a good quality of life for the planet's population.

BCN 6584C, Building Energy Modeling
Credits: 3, Grading Scheme: Letter
As energy is becoming more precious, it is crucial for building sector toproactively designand
operate high performancebuildings. To achieve higher standards in building design and
operation, a solid foundation of energy engineering and sustainability principles is essential.

DCP 6221, Economics of Sustainability in the Built Environment. This course is in the approval
process. This course is under review by University Curriculum Committee/ Graduate Curriculum
Committee
Credits: 3 Grading Scheme: Letter
This course will present concepts, theories, data, and empirical findings critical for analyzing the
economics of sustainability, and the practice of managing organizations, communities, cities,
countries, and regions in a way that ensures our planet maintained. This course examines
sustainability from the perspective of the intersection of business performance and performance
in the built environment that encourages equity and without compromising people or place.
Sustainability officers from companies and government as well as stakeholders from communities
will serve as guest speakers in class throughout the semester. Topics we will explore include an
overview of natural resource (green) accounting, the valuation of biodiversity and ecosystem
services, urban sustainability, sustainable business practices, the interacting roles of business,
government and NGOs, and the role of international finance institutions.

DCP 6230, Integrated Sustainable Development Practicum
Credits: 6, Grading Scheme: Letter
Integrated sustainable development is in fact, about integrating everything - connecting people,
processes, data, and the built environment. The approaches are innovative and informed by
making communities livable across scales and populations; consuming and managing large
datasets; performing analytics; and measuring impacts that allow us to explore and understand
patterns that create insights for green infrastructure planning and sustainable investments. This
course highlights the use of scientific principles in creating innovative technology-based projects
that achieve the mutual goals of improved quality of life, economic prosperity, and sustainable
infrastructure. This course uses a design thinking approach to develop a strategy that integrates
innovation, analytics, impact assessment, planning and policy into the solution.

[[page 9]]
Elective Courses

ARC 6311C, Building Information Modeling (BIM)
Credits: 3, Grading Scheme: Letter
Widespread adoption of 3D modeling enabled complex geometries and spatial relations to be
tested, refined, and documented; gradually digital design moves beyond being a representational
tool and is starting to have an impact on the design process and methodology. Iterative and non-
linear design workflows are now much more flexible due to the evolving programs architects are
adopting, with the concept of parametric simultaneously enabling precision with constraints while
allowing for ambiguity and adaptability with outcome.

ARC 6883, Vernacular Architecture and Sustainability
Credits: 3, Grading Scheme: Letter
In this course, we will look at the location of vernacular architecture in the discourse of
architectural sustainability. We will look at how vernacular architecture has been constructed,
represented, and consumed in the environmental histories of architecture. We will examine how
vernacular architecture constructed as a pedagogic object of climate responsiveness and as a set
of relationships between human beings and their environment.

ARC 6621, Graduate Environmental Technology 2
Credits: 3, Grading Scheme: Letter
ARC 6621 investigates acoustical, thermal, and luminous qualities within the built environment,
with an emphasis on building envelope and system design. The main goal of the course is to
advance students' knowledge of computational modeling in building technologies such as lighting
and energy simulation. The course begins with a study of building acoustic, lighting, and thermal
systems and then focuses on the evaluation of building energy performance in various climate
zones. Specific topics include architectural acoustics, advanced lighting and daylighting strategies,
visual and thermal comfort assessment, building primary (boilers, chillers, etc.) and secondary
(comfort delivery) mechanical systems, and building energy performance. This course will use a
mix of traditional lecture and interactive and experiential education, and will include laboratory
sessions, guest lectures, in-class debates and discussions, site visits, and real-time building
performance measurements and experiments.

ARC6911 Architecture and Climate
Credits: 3, Grading Scheme: Letter
The dominance of climate change and the carbon cycle in the development of Sustainable
Architecture has signified a major shift in the relationship between climate and architecture. This
course examines how anthropogenic climate change became a global architectural concern and
how architects have responded to shifting environmental concerns, particularly in Europe. Prior to
the ascendancy of climate change and the carbon cycle as metrics of the relationship between
buildings and the environment, the architectural environmental paradigms of the 1950s to 1980s
were predicated on architecture as mediator between the human body and the outdoor climate.
Climate was viewed as a stable environmental actor, which determined architecture. As it became
apparent that buildings, as one of the key consumers of fossil fuels, contribute significantly to
climate change, the relationship between architecture and climate went through a paradigmatic
shift-from one in which climate was a determinant of architectural metrics, to one in which
architecture became an active agent in the transformation of global climatic systems.

[[page 10]]
10

BCN 6785 Construction Information System (BIM)
Credits: 3, Grading Scheme: Letter
This course will cover the fundamental principles and practices of Building Information Modeling
(BIM) and Virtual Design and Construction (VDC). Additional lectures may also be supplemented to
present the use of information systems in the construction context.
Teaching methodology will consist of weekly online tutorials/classes which will present the basic
practice of using a variety of BIM software tools including, but not limited to: Autodesk Revit,
Navisworks Manage, BIM 360, Assemble Systems, Synchro, and ReCap Pro. All classwork material
can be found on the course Canvas site.

BCN 6583, Sustainable Housing
Credits: 3, Grading Scheme: Letter
Sustainability emerges from the balance and intersection of "the 3 e's": environment, economics
and social equity. Postindustrial residential planning and building practices of recent decades have
often neglected to address even one of these e's, resulting in residential buildings and landscapes
that will be - or currently are - unsustainable in even the near future. Recent efforts have
produced processes, practices, and innovations to rectify this situation. Some of these residential
practices try to incorporate at least one of these "e's" into the design-development-financing
construction-occupancy process; some attempt to address more than one. The premise of this
course is that "sustainable" includes but is more than building "green;" and that it needs to
address the environmental, social and economic facets of housing, from the home interior to the
residential infrastructure. This course examines approaches and exemplars that can advance the
development and building of sustainable housing in this light.

CGN 5606, Public Works Management
Credits: 3, Grading Scheme: Letter
The intent of this course is to teach the student the basic concepts of managing public works
organizations, leadership qualities, and the art of communicating with different people within
these organizations. The student will also learn about financial and legal aspects involved in
public works. Furthermore, the student will learn to identify public works problems and how to
determine possible solutions.

CGN 5605, Public Work Planning
Credits: 3, Grading Scheme: Letter
The course intends to teach students the basic concepts of best land use practices, best
transportation practices, best environmental practices, and best housing practices in the
planning of cities and urban environment. Furthermore, students will learn comprehensive land
use in relation to sustainable land development for residential subdivisions, industrial parks,
commercial/shopping centers and to apply these skills to the four assigned projects during the
semester.

DCP 6931, Data Science for Interior-Environment Research & Des
Credits: 3, Grading Scheme: Letter
Using mixed methods for performance research is valuable for measuring the true effectiveness of
interior environment design. Knowing how to correctly apply context appropriate logic models and
interpret quantitative analysis outcomes is essential for exploring the relationships between
human factors and the environments we inhabit. This methodology allows for unbiased and

[[page 11]]
objective inquiry, which can improve the validity of inferences drawn from an investigation of
complex spaces supporting both individual occupants and human activity systems.

DCP 6301, WELL BLDG Strategies (WELL Practicum)
Credits: 6, Grading Scheme: Letter
The salutogenic model of health provides a rubric for evaluating contextual factors that contribute
to human physical and mental wellbeing. When applied to the design of the built environments, it
can serve as a lodestar for ensuring that settings for working, healing, learning, and living are
optimally supportive of the health of humans inhabiting them. A viable method for
operationalizing salutogenesis in building design is understanding and applying valid sustainability
and human wellness design benchmarking systems such as WELL Building Institute standards. This
hands-on learning lab uses WELL v2 to increase student competencies and skill in integrating
principles design for Buildings that promote human resilience and environmental sustainability.
These labs, co-taught by UF Sustainability and the Built Environment and Interior Design
department faculty, facilitate learning for a cross-section of DCP students through pedagogical
instruction and hands-on application in an actual built environment. These Learning Labs prepare
students with the critical abilities needed to be effective communicators, critical thinkers, project
managers, problem solvers, and team players in designing human-centered built environments.
This learning lab also offers a body of knowledge basis and pathway for students pursuing WELL
Accreditation.

DCP 6231C, Green Building Strategies (LEED Lab)
Credits: 6, Grading Scheme: Letter
This is a multidisciplinary course, in which students are introduced to green strategies and
technologies for the design, construction and operation of high-performance buildings. The course
is designed to equip students with the skills and knowledge needed to be effective
communicators, critical thinkers, project managers, problem solvers, and team players. Students
learn the strategies for greening new construction and the need to continue through operation
with applying green building rating systems principles and framework of Leadership in Energy and
Environmental Design (LEEDTM). Students will understand the alignment of the United Nations
Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) with green building strategies. Each semester a UF
building/project is used for the class project and hands-on learning. Successful course completion
can prepare the student for LEEDTM V4 Green Associate (GA) and Accredited Professional (AP)
credential exams.
In addition, this semester the course integrated the Department of Energy Zero Energy Buildings
design strategies that addresses building science principles that are paramount to the successful
design of high-performance, energy-efficient buildings to prepare the students for net-zero
emission economy by 2050 and trigger them think beyond LEED.

TTE 5006 Advanced Urban Transportation Planning
Credits: 3, Grading Scheme: Letter
Overview of the "four-step" urban transportation planning process, estimation of the travel
demand models of trip generation, trip distribution, mode choice, and traffic assignment, and the
forecasting of travel patterns using the travel-demand models, state-of-the-art approaches.

LAA 6382, Ecological and Environmental Policy
Credits: 3, Grading Scheme: Letter
This course will provide a survey of major environmental policy and law with particular reference
to Florida case studies. It is a designated core course. Our society attempts to provide

[[page 12]]
12

environmental protection through the articulation of public policy codified in the form of laws and
regulations.

URP 6716, Transportation Policy & Planning
Credits: 3, Grading Scheme: Letter
This course deals with urban transportation planning and policy. The course is an overview of
transportation planning issues largely in a metropolitan context.

URP 6711, Transportation and Land Use Coordination
Credits: 3, Grading Scheme: Letter
This course addresses a variety of aspects of the connection between land use and transportation.
The course is an in-depth evaluation of a wide range of transportation and land use at a variety of
scales. This course builds on two courses in the curriculum in the Department of Urban and
Regional Planning: URP6716- Transportation Policy and Planning and URP6131 - Land Use
Planning Law. In the course, we consider how the patterns of land use and transportation shaped
by three major sets of actors in the urban environment: individuals, businesses, and governments.

URP 6100, Planning Theory and History
Credits: 3, Grading Scheme: Letter
This course addresses the history and fundamental theory of planning. Understanding the history
and theory of planning requires that we consider three separate but related elements. First, is the
evolution of the city as a physical, social, and economic entity? Second, is the evolution of
planning as a process, which takes us beyond the field of city planning. Cities have been planned
and built by a wide variety of actors, including engineers, politicians, capitalists, architects,
lawyers, doctors, radicals, conservatives, craftspeople, and workers. Third, planning has evolved in
the United States and in Western Europe since the late 19th Century through a profession of
people calling themselves city planners. They, too, have been very diverse, driven by many
different motivations and seeing the profession in widely differing ways based upon, among other
factors, the various theories of planning. These theories discussed within the context of the
history of planning and their implications for planning practice. Because engaging with the public
interest is integral to the planning profession and given the role planning has had in shaping urban
and regional environments with direct consequences for quality of life, issues of social justice form
an essential framework throughout this course.

URP 6421, Environmental land use planning and management
Credits: 3, Grading Scheme: Letter
This course surveys environmental land use planning and management practices across the
breadth of the field through seven modules. Each module examines environmental concerns,
associated land use planning and management goals and practices, and illustrative cases.

URP 6541, Economic Development Planning
Credits: 3, Grading Scheme: Letter
This course offers an overview of selected important topics in economic development planning at
local, national, and international level. Urban planning and economic development often intersect
in real world. Several economic development issues both at micro and macro level, such as
employment, taxes, subsidy, human capital formation, investment, influence of technology, rapid
globalization, innovative entrepreneurship, and overall growth, greatly affect the built
environment through many different channels.

[[page 13]]
FYC 6302, Sustainable Community Development
This course examines the status of contemporary sustainable community development research,
knowledge, policy and practice. I encourage students to examine the underlying premises and goals of
sustainable community development. We will explore different approaches to development for
sustainability including socio -ecological systems, natural step or social evolutionary theory, planetary
boundaries or resource limitation, ecological economics, and socio -environmental perspectives. You
will complete three analytic assignments in which you explore aspects of sustainable community
development of specific interest to you

MISD Registration
* First Term Registration. First term registration for newly admitted students is done by self or
the Graduate Admissions Officer.
* Subsequent Term Registration. Student will meet with the Graduate Admissions Officer
prior to subsequent registration. The Graduate Admissions Officer will email students about
registration for the upcoming semester with course options and important dates . Students
will need to consult with the Graduate Admissions Officer for Capstone registration.
* Drop/Add. It is imperative that all course schedule adjustments are completed before the
end of the Drop/Add period for any given semester. Reference the academic calendar found
in the Graduate Catalog for the deadlines.

Course Descriptions
Reference the Graduate Catalog for course descriptions. https://catalog.ufl.edu/graduate/

[[page 14]]
14
General Information

Combination Master's Degrees
A combination degree program includes simultaneous study on an individualized basis that leads to two
master's degrees in two different graduate programs. Such a program is initiated by the student but requires
prior approval from each academic unit and the Graduate School. If the student is a pproved to pursue two
master's degrees, up to nine credits of course work from one degree program may be applied toward the
second master's degree, thereby allowing the two degrees to be completed in less time and more
economically.

Unsatisfactory Progress
Any graduate student may be denied further registration if progress toward completing the program
becomes unsatisfactory to the academic unit, college, or Dean of the Graduate School. Unsatisfactory
scholarship is defined as failure to maintain a B average (3.00) in all work attempted. Graduate students need
an overall grade point average (GPA) of 3.00 and a 3.00 GPA in their major (and in the minor if a minor is
declared) at graduation. Students with less than a 3.00 GPA may not hold an assistantship.

Frequently Asked Questions

Is any assistance with employment offered by the SBE/DCP?
The SBE program assists students with finding internships and job interviews. The DCP also hosts career fairs in
the Spring and Fall Semesters.

Will graduate students have their own space?
The DCP graduate common space is located at the 1 st floor at the Architecture building. Students are not
assigned desk space as it is a common area but dedicated to graduate students.

Is the GRE required if one already has an advanced degree, an FE or PE, or has GMAT scores?
MISD does not require the GRE.

Where can one find information on graduation ceremonies?
The University of Florida refers to the ceremonies honoring graduating students as Commencement,
and information regarding it can be found on the Commencement website,
https://commencement.ufl.edu/.

Does SBE/DCP accept transfer credits?
Up to six credits of relevant graduate-level coursework from another regionally accredited institution may
be transferred, at the discretion of the Director of Graduate Studies, towards the MISD, if those credits
were not used to satisfy requirements for a previously awarded degree and a grade of B or higher was
earned in the course(s).

Can MISD credit be used towards a DCP PhD?
Up to 30 credits may be transferred to a doctoral degree in Design, Construction and Planning.

Is on-campus housing available?
UF does have graduate student housing. Reference the UF Housing and Residence Education
website, https://www.housing.ufl.edu/, for information.

[[page 15]]
How long does it take to earn MISD?
Student can complete MISD in one year. Starting in the fall and graduate in the summer if the student
is full time.

What does one do with a MISD degree?
The MISD graduates enter construction, energy, NGOs and other public and private sectors.

Where do students come from?
MISD students can come from across the world. Their academic backgrounds have ranged from
Anthropology, sustainability, engineering, to Urban and Regional Planning.

How does one obtain a student ID card?
Students should stop by Gator 1 Central, located on the ground floor of the Reitz Union, when they arrive
on campus to begin their first semester to obtain their Gator-1 card. Photo identification is required.

What Student organizations exist at DCP?
Reference the Students section of the DCP website, https://dcp.ufl.edu/student-clubs.

We will be glad to have you, and we look forward to working with you.

[[page 16]]
16

Sustainability and the Built Environment
College of Design, Construction and Planning

1480 Inner Road, Architecture Building
PO Box 115701
Gainesville, FL 32611-5701
PH: 352-294-1428
L 32611-5703
Phone: 352.273.1150