[[page 1]]
McCombs School of Business Student Handbook for the
following Full-time Master of Science Programs:
* Master of Science in Business Analytics (MSBA)
* Master of Science in Finance (MSF)
* Master of Science in Information Technology and
Management (MSITM)
* Master of Science in Marketing (MSM)
2026 - 2027

[[page 2]]
Page 1 of 24

Table of Contents:
* Administrative Basics ................................................................................ 1
* Emails & Accounts ..................................................................................... 4
* Academic Information ............................................................................... 5
* Financial Information ............................................................................... 13
* Curriculum ............................................................................................... 15
* Handbook Acknowledgement .................................................................. 19
* Photo/Video Release ................................................................................ 20
* Travel/Activity Release ............................................................................. 21

[[page 3]]
Page 2 of 24
ADMINISTRATIVE BASICS

Intensive Week
Each program holds a required, in-person, one-week 'Summer Intensive' program in Austin that
offers training in areas including, technical analysis, modeling, communications and UT
resources, the week before classes start in early July. While the material is an important
foundation for your future classes and you will be expected to retain the knowledge gained,
your performance will not be graded.

Class Location
The majority of Texas Master of Science (MS) classes are held at Robert B.Rowling Hall located
at 300 W Marting Luther King Jr. Drive, Austin, TX (NE corner of MLK and Guadalupe). Classes
are held Monday - Thursday, with Fridays dedicated to career workshops and events. Classes
are not offered online unless deemed hybrid by the University of Texas at Austin due to a global
pandemic, natural disaster, or other health/safety necessity. Regardless of class location, MS
students are expected to attend classes synchronously. You will be notified ahead of time of
any room changes via Canvas.

UT EID
Your UT EID is provided by the University of Texas at Austin (UT) to perform secure actions. You
used this account to apply to the University. It is managed by the UT Information Technology
Services (ITS) department. You should address any questions or issues with it to the UT Service
Desk (http://www.utexas.edu/its/helpdesk/). You can reset your password or look up your UT
EID at the UT EID Self Service Tools Site (https://idmanager.its.utexas.edu/eid_self_help).

Your UT EID is used to perform many actions, such as:

* Log in to Canvas (http://canvas.utexas.edu/), the learning management system used by
professors and program staff to distribute documents, announcements, and grades
* Log in to the MyUT portal (https://my.utexas.edu/UT-Austin-Production/Welcome), the
site where you can perform secure functions with UT
* Access UT's wireless internet
* Use UT Box (https://utexas.account.box.com/login) to store files
* Print to campus printers, including those in the McCombs School of Business

Upgrading your UT EID (https://ut.service-now.com) is necessary to view your grades online,
accessing your UT Box account, and many other activities. To upgrade your UT EID, the
University requires physical proof of your identity (government-issued ID, such as U.S. state

[[page 4]]
Page 3 of 24
license or passport) and you must sign an agreement which gives your UT EID legal signature
authority. This process may be initiated upon your arrival on campus.

Acceptable Use Policy
When you use your UT EID, your McCombs School of Business (MSB) account, or any other UT
or McCombs technology resources, you must follow UT's Acceptable Use Policy. These rules
apply any time you use a UT computing resource. This can mean using a computer in one of the
labs, sending email from your UT email account, or using UT's wireless Internet access. You are
responsible for following all computing policies (https://security.utexas.edu/policies/aup) as
outlined by The University of Texas at Austin.
Here are some of the most commonly broken policies:
* Do not let anyone else use your accounts. Never give out your password.
* Do not send rude, threatening, or harassing emails, even as a joke.
* You may not profit from the use of a university computing resource.
* Do not send emails anonymously or using someone else's name.
* Do not send spam.
* Do not violate copyright laws.
* Do not hack into any UT systems.

Students with Disabilities
The University of Texas at Austin has a written policy, which states that students with
disabilities will be provided appropriate academic accommodations. The purpose of academic
accommodations is to ensure equal access to and the opportunity to benefit from all
educational programs at UT Austin for all students. It is the responsibility of the student to
identify themself to the Disability and Access Office and to provide documentation of their
disability. Strict documentation guidelines exist for different types of disabilities. Information on
documentation guidelines for disabilities can be found on the Disability and Access website
(https://disability.utexas.edu/ or via phone (512-471-6259) or e-mail
(access@austin.utexas.edu). Faculty are not able to provide accommodations unless a student
goes through this reporting process.

Tobacco and Alcohol Policies
The University of Texas at Austin is a tobacco-free campus (https://tobaccofree.utexas.edu),
and the use of tobacco on any UT Austin property is not allowed. Tobacco use in any of The
University of Texas at Austin buildings is strictly prohibited and any student found using tobacco
in a UT Austin building is subject to a fine. UT Austin policies regarding alcoholic beverage
consumption are very strict. Alcoholic beverages are prohibited from university activities
without express written permission and prior approval from the Office of the Provost. A person
must be at least 21 years of age to drink an alcoholic beverage in Texas. Any underaged
drinking will be referred to the Office of the Dean of Students for disciplinary review.

[[page 5]]
Page 4 of 24
Student Guide to Sex Discrimination, Sexual Harassment, & Sexual Misconduct
The University of Texas at Austin is committed to maintaining an educational environment that
is free from inappropriate conduct of a sexual nature. The University encourages students who
believe that they may have been subjected to sex discrimination, sexual harassment, or sexual
misconduct by faculty, staff, students, visitors, or contractors to report it immediately to a Title
IX Coordinator or Deputy (https://titleix.utexas.edu/our-team) or file an anonymous report
(https://titleix.utexas.edu/file-a-report). Feel free to share and discuss incidents or concerns
with MSPO faculty and staff. Although the MSPO faculty and staff are required by law to report
some incidents, they will explain what we must report so you are fully informed as you share
your incident. You control how much information you provide to us and we provide resources
to help you begin to manage the situation. Note: There are also confidential case managers
located in the Dean of Students Office - https://titleix.utexas.edu/confidential-case-manager-
students
Student Code of Conduct
Any time you are representing the University of Texas at Austin or the MS Programs (directly or
indirectly), you are expected to abide by the University's Student Code of Conduct:
https://deanofstudents.utexas.edu/conduct/standards-of-conduct.php
Some examples of misconduct include, but are not limited to:
* Disrespecting a fellow student, staff member, faculty member or external constituent
* Harassing or disruptive behavior at a school-sponsored event, or at events where you
are representing The University of Texas at Austin
Issues that arise during the course of the program will be referred to the Dean of Students.

EMAIL & ACCOUNTS
Change in Personal Information
Each student is required to keep current local and permanent contact information, and an
email address on file with the University. If any changes occur, please:

1. Immediately notify the Texas MS staff and appropriate faculty with the new
information.
2. Update your information through the MyUT (https://my.utexas.edu/UT-Austin-
Production/Welcome) portal. This updates your official UT record and directory entry,
which is critical to ensure that no communication is missed.

Program Communications
Canvas will be the primary form of communication for academic and student affairs
programmatic information. Students are expected to check program announcements on a
regular basis using their Canvas log in. Students are also expected to check their email regularly

[[page 6]]
Page 5 of 24
and communicate with program staff in a timely manner.

UT Email Account
Your student email address is EID based: [your eid]@my.utexas.edu and will be listed as your
primary email address in your student record. All University communications will be sent to
this email address. This is a new policy as of summer 2025.

Student Photo ID
The University of Texas at Austin provides each student with a picture identification card that
enables use of many university facilities and services, including but not limited to free Cap
Metro transportation. Students should carry this card with them any time they are going to be
present on the UT main campus.

To obtain your ID, please go to the Flawn Academic Center (FAC) and request a Student ID Card.
The student ID card will allow you to access the McCombs building after hours. The cost to
purchase this card is $10. Student can pay on the What I Owe Page. For additional information,
visit the ID Center. Lost, damaged, or stolen cards will require an additional replacement fee
paid by the student.

ACADEMIC INFORMATION
Degree Requirements
All Texas MS Programs students in the class of 2027 are responsible for completing the degree
requirements in order to earn an MSBA, MSF, MSITM, or MSM degree, which can be found in
Addendums A, B, C, or D respectively.
Students are required to complete all core components of their programs. Substitutions can be
requested and approved by Program Directors on a case-by-case basis. Students are also able
to request a maximum of 6 elective credit hours from another MS program curriculum to count
towards their degree. In rare circumstances, a student may identify an elective course outside
of the MS Program that achieve their academic outcomes. In such circumstances, the student
must receive written permission from the course instructor as well as a representative from
host department office (likely the Department's Graduate Advisor or Program Coordinator)
prior to seeking approval from the MS Program Director.
Any classes taken outside the prescribed curriculum are subject to Program approval and may
incur additional fees. Students who do not complete the prescribed curriculum within the 2026-
2027 MS Programs Academic Year may be subject to additional requirements and fees.
Each MS student will receive an annual progress report from their graduate coordinator
between the fall and spring semester. This report will outline remaining degree requirements

[[page 7]]
Page 6 of 24
and eligibility to graduate in the spring semester contingent upon successful completion of the
spring semester.

Grades
All Texas MS students are held to the academic standards of The University of Texas at Austin.
Students will receive a letter grade for each course, which are determined solely by the Texas
MS faculty. Each instructor determines grading metrics and what constitutes successful
academic performance in their course relative to those metrics. Courses in the Texas MS
program may not be taken on a pass/fail or credit/no credit basis.

Official grade point averages are calculated by the Registrar and appear on the student
academic record maintained by the Registrar. The grade point average does not include any
graduate or undergraduate courses the student took at the University before enrolling in the
UT Graduate School, credit by examination, or courses taken at other institutions. [note: MS
courses completed while an undergraduate student will count toward a student's
undergraduate GPA]

The following numerical equivalents of letter grades are used in the calculation of the graduate
grade point average:
A 4.00 C 2.00
A- 3.67 C- 1.67
B+ 3.33 D+ 1.33
B 3.00 D 1.00
B- 2.67 D- 0.67
C+ 2.33 F 0.00

To graduate, all students must maintain an overall grade point average of at least 3.00 and
make a "C" or better in all courses. If a student receives a C- (or lower) in a core course, the
student may be dismissed* from the program; if a student receives a C-(or lower) in an elective
course they cannot apply those hours to their required hour count.
*Please note that earning a "C-" or lower in a course may mean that a student is ineligible to
continue a core requirement in the next semester, since each semester of coursework builds
upon the next and courses are typically only offered once per year.

Registration Policies
You will be registered for classes by MS Programs Staff. Registration processes and selection of
courses will be communicated each semester. Additional policies include but are not limited to
the following:

[[page 8]]
Page 7 of 24
* Whole-Semester Classes -
o Students can make changes to their schedules (add/drop) during the first week
of classes of the long semester by communicating with their respective Senior
Academic Program Coordinator.
o Beginning on the second week of classes, students must gain permission from
the Program Director to make schedule changes.
* Half-Semester Classes -
o Students can make changes to their schedules (add/drop) during the first class
day of the half-semester classes by communicating with their respective Senior
Academic Program Coordinator.
o Beginning on the second (2nd) class day, students must gain permission from the
Program Director to make schedule changes.
* For courses that offer multiple sections and meeting times, students may only attend
the unique number of the course for which they are registered. Attending a unique
number of a course for which you are not registered is against security, fire, and safety
policies of the University.
* If a student wishes to request an elective from another MS Program, they must receive
permission from both their program director as well as the program director owning the
MS course. Approval is not guaranteed and students must make these requests by the
deadline in that given semester (usually 1-2 weeks before the registration window). The
specific date of this deadline will be communicated to you in advance. Exceptions after
the deadline will only be considered with an approved petition from the Program
Director.
* If a student wishes to request an elective from outside of MS Programs, they must
receive permission through a petition to the Program Director. Petitions must clearly
state how the learning objectives of the course will further your career goals, explain
how these career goals are not met with an MS programs course option, and include a
syllabus for the course you are requesting to take. Approval is not guaranteed, and
students must make these requests by the deadline in that given semester (usually 1-2
weeks before the registration window). The specific date of this deadline will be
communicated to you in advance.
* You may not audit a course in or out of the MS Programs.
Maximum Course Load
The maximum course load for a graduate student is 15 semester hours in a spring or fall
semester, or 12 semester hours in a 12-week summer session. Students who wish to exceed the
maximum course load must request approval from the Faculty Program Director. If approved,
the Senior Academic Program Coordinator will submit a petition letter from the graduate

[[page 9]]
Page 8 of 24
advisor to the graduate dean for approval. This request must be approved by the graduate
school prior to being able to be registered.
Obtaining Grade Reports
Final course grades can be obtained on the Registrar's website
(http://registrar.utexas.edu/students/grades/report). The University does not mail hard copies
of grade reports to home addresses.

Academic Policies
Detailed information regarding all items addressed in this section may be found in the UT
Austin Graduate Catalog (http://registrar.utexas.edu/catalogs/graduate).

Student Responsibilities
While university faculty and staff members may give a student academic advice and assistance,
each student is expected to take responsibility for their education and personal development.
The student must know and abide by the academic and disciplinary policies given in the
Graduate Catalog (http://registrar.utexas.edu/catalogs/graduate) and in the General
Information (https://registrar.utexas.edu/catalogs/general-information) Catalog, including rules
governing quantity of work, the standard of work required to continue at UT, warning status
and scholastic dismissal, and enforced withdrawal.

Observance of Religious Holidays
The UT General Information Catalog (https://catalog.utexas.edu/general-
information/academic-policies-and-procedures/attendance/) states that "A student who misses
classes or other required activities, including examinations, for the observance of a religious
holy day should inform the instructor as far in advance of the absence as possible so that
arrangements can be made to complete an assignment within a reasonable period after the
absence. A reasonable accommodation does not include substantial modification to academic
standards, or adjustments of requirements essential to any program of instruction. The
University does not maintain a list of religious holy days. Please notify the faculty and Texas MS
staff at least fourteen days before the absence.
Warning Status and Academic Dismissal
To continue study at the University of Texas at Austin beyond the first semester, students must
make satisfactory progress in fulfilling any admission conditions that were imposed by the
graduate dean.

A student whose grade point average falls below 3.00 at the end of any semester will be
warned by the Office of Graduate Studies that their continuance in the UT Austin Graduate
School is in jeopardy and will be placed on scholastic probation during the subsequent
semester. During this period, the student may not drop a course or withdraw from the
university without the approval of the graduate advisor and the graduate dean. The student
must attain a cumulative grade point average of at least 3.00 during the next semester they are

[[page 10]]
Page 9 of 24
enrolled or be subject to dismissal from the university. Academic dismissal is reflected on the
student's academic record. Please review The Graduate School's official policy
(https://gradschool.utexas.edu/academics/policies/warning-status-academic-dismissal) for
more information about warning status, academic dismissal, and petition for readmission.

Leave of Absence
Students may apply for a leave of absence for no more than two long semesters. Granting
leaves of absence is left to the discretion of the graduate advisor. If approved, a "Leave of
Absence" form must be returned to the Graduate School in advance of the semester for which
a leave is granted. A student on an approved leave of absence must apply for readmission in
order to return to the university, but readmission during this approved period is automatic and
the application fee is waived. A student on leave may not receive any privileges otherwise
available to enrolled students. Please contact your Senior Academic Program Coordinator for
more information.

International students attending in F-1 or J-1 immigration status must consult with an
International Student Advisor at International Students & Scholars Services (ISSS) in Texas
Global prior to taking a leave of absence to discuss how leave will affect immigration status.

Leave of Absence, Short-Term Leave Academic Accommodation
The Master of Science Program Office works with each student to balance their academic
responsibilities and demands of life that may require a short-term leave of absence. The need
for a short-term leave may include but is not limited to, legal obligations, care for dependents
or family, parenting obligations, temporary disability, and medical or mental health concerns.

Due to the 10-month intensive nature of MS Programs it is recommended that short-term
leaves be limited to as short as possible however we will work with students based on their
specific circumstances in consultation with the student's care/legal team and based on faculty
agreement to provide reasonable academic accommodations as necessary. After a short-term
leave period, MS students are expected to resume progress towards degree completion.

It is the responsibility of the MS student to inform their assigned Senior Academic Program
Coordinator (SAPC) and Program Director (PD) in writing of any anticipated accommodation
needs as early as possible.

It is the responsibility of the MS student to work with each of their faculty members to
negotiate reasonable accommodations for the short-term leave of absence period.

Withdrawal
Dropping an entire course load (i.e. going to zero enrolled hours) constitutes withdrawal from
the University for that semester. To withdraw from the Graduate School, a student must first
contact the Senior Academic Program Coordinator (for applicable procedures and deadlines)
and then file a petition with the graduate dean.

[[page 11]]
Page 10 of 24

International students attending on F-1 or J-1 immigration visas must consult with an
International Student Advisor at International Students & Scholars Services (ISSS) in Texas
Global prior to withdrawal to discuss how it will affect immigration status.

The Standard of Academic Integrity
A fundamental principle for any educational institution, academic integrity is highly valued and
seriously regarded at The University of Texas at Austin. More specifically, you and other
students are expected to maintain absolute integrity and a high standard of individual honor in
scholastic work undertaken at the University. This is a very basic expectation that is further
reinforced by the University's Honor Code. At a minimum, you should complete any
assignments, exams, and other scholastic endeavors with the utmost honesty, which requires
you to:
* Acknowledge the contributions of other sources to your scholastic efforts;
* Complete your assignments independently unless expressly authorized to seek or obtain
assistance in preparing them including large language models (ex. ChapGPT);
* Follow instructions for assignments and exams, and observe the standards of your
academic discipline; and
* Avoid engaging in any form of academic dishonesty on behalf of yourself or another
student.

For more information on avoiding academic misconduct, review Student Conduct's website that
provides examples and videos.

For the official policies on academic integrity and scholastic dishonesty, please refer to Chapter
11 (https://catalog.utexas.edu/general-information/appendices/appendix-c/student-conduct-
and-academic-integrity/ /) of the Institutional Rules on Student Services and Activities.

Use of Artificial Intelligence and Academic Integrity
1. Follow guidance for AI tool usage in each course. For some courses and assignments AI
tools are restricted to facilitate learning goals and objectives. Conceptually, it can be
valuable to practice doing long division with paper and pencil before you break out the
calculator. If a policy is not clear, ask your faculty member.
2. Be a conscientious consumer of LLMs. The University has selected and established
licensing with a collection of AI tools and platforms to ensure data stays private and isn't
used to train outside AI models. Summary below.
UT Spark: UT's all-in-one AI platform, powered by OpenAI and Microsoft Azure,
available for free to all current faculty, staff and students. UT Spark can help work out
ideas, summarize research, brainstorm ideas and, coming soon, build personal AI agents
to automate tasks. Each day, we are working to integrate Spark with campus systems, so

[[page 12]]
Page 11 of 24
you will be able to chat with official UT agents to get quick answers about campus
services or resources.
Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat: A free, secure AI chatbot for all faculty, staff and students.
It offers real-time web answers, content summarization and image generation, with
enterprise-grade data protection built in.
Microsoft 365 Copilot (licensed version): A paid upgrade for faculty and staff members
seeking deeper integration with Microsoft 365 apps such as Word, Excel and Teams. It
supports advanced workflows, connects to institutional data, and enables low-code/no-
code agent creation.
UT Sage: A safe, secure AI-powered tutor endorsed for use in UT classrooms. Built on
responsible AI and sound pedagogical principles, Sage is designed to support student
learning through conversational assistance.
Google Gemini: A free multimodal AI tool available to faculty, staff and students,
supporting text, image and code generation through your UT Mail Google for Education
account.

Standards for Professionalism
Attendance
This program is an academically rigorous 10-month program, and class attendance as well as
participation is essential. You are expected to be in class and to arrive ON TIME. On-Time is
defined as at least 5 minutes prior to the posted class or event start time and being ready to
begin at the time instruction or activity begins. Unless otherwise stipulated by individual faculty
members, students of the MS Programs are allowed 2-3 excused absences. Your academic
studies always come first.
Non-Disclosure Agreements
As part of coursework, you may be required to sign a Non-Disclosure Agreement (NDA) to gain
access to client projects or data. The University of Texas at Austin does not negotiate the terms
of these NDAs, and you will be signing these agreements as individuals taking part in the project
(not as a representative of the University, Texas MS, or the Practicum/Capstone). It is the
program's expectation that you will agree to the terms of an NDA and comply with the terms of
the NDA as given by the client; however, if you do have major concerns with the terms then
please bring those to the attention of your instructor as soon as possible. In addition, if you are
uncomfortable signing NDAs as an individual, please notify your instructor before the start of
the project. If you are unwilling to sign an NDA this may impact your ability to work directly
with client data.

[[page 13]]
Page 12 of 24
Professional Conduct and Classroom Etiquette
You are expected at all times to represent the program well and to ensure that you are treating
program staff, faculty, students, and industry partners with respect. Students in the MS
Programs are expected to treat faculty members with respect during their classes and be
mindful of their use of phones, laptops, and food.
Repercussions for Professionalism Violations
Repeated failure to do these things can result in privileges being revoked including but not
limited to: industry events, career management support, and department sponsored extra-
curricular activities. Repercussions for not showing up or showing up late repeatedly are at the
discretion of the respective program's Program Director or Director of Student Experience.
* Violation 1: Meeting with your Senior Academic Program Coordinator (SAPC).
* Violation 2: Loss of access to MS Programs programming and opportunities.
Reinstatement of access will be evaluated through a meeting with the Program Director
or Director of Student Experience.
* Violation 3: Permanent loss of MS Programs programming and opportunities.
Other Information
Escalation - If there are any issues with classes, faculty, course content, etc. please ensure that
you are bringing these immediately to the attention of the Texas MS Senior Academic Program
Coordinator.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Payment Instructions
Texas Master of Science Program Fees (tuition) are billed every semester. The due dates are
aligned with the Academic Calendar (https://registrar.utexas.edu/calendars).
*The most up-to-date payment deadlines can be found at the One Stop website
(https://onestop.utexas.edu/managing-costs/paying-your-tuition/payment-deadlines)
The Program Fee will be included on your invoice on the McCombs Payment Portal
(https://utdirect.utexas.edu/business/payment/portal/). It can be paid with credit card, check,
e-check, or wire transfer.

If your financial aid payment will arrive after the deadline, communicate with the MSPO
Registrar (MSPORegistrar@mccombs.utexas.edu) as soon as possible so that adjustments can
be made on a case-by-case basis.
Note that MS Programs students are expected to meet tuition deadlines. Tuition, fees and
attendance confirmation must be completed by the deadline (5th class day in fall/spring and 3rd
class day in summer by 5:00pm CT) or your registration will be cancelled and classes dropped

[[page 14]]
Page 13 of 24
for the semester. A student can be re-registered for their classes until the 12th class day of
fall/spring (4th class day in the summer) only after their tuition bill has been paid in full.
Registration after the tuition deadline will result in a $50 late fee. Please note that being
dropped from classes may impact your eligibility to complete and earn your MS degree.
Additionally, you will not be able to register for future classes or participate in commencement
if you have an outstanding bill. In accordance with the General Information Catalog
(https://catalog.utexas.edu/general-information/academic-policies-and-
procedures/diplomas/), a student who owes a debt to the University may be unable to obtain a
diploma until the debt is paid.
An installment plan is available when you submit your Financial Responsibility Statement and
the due dates will align with the Academic Calendar.
Texas MS students awarded scholarships by the department can expect their scholarship to
release on the same date tuition is due in check form or direct deposit. These students will
receive their awards in three separate distributions- one in summer, one for fall, and one for
spring.
If you received a scholarship during your admissions process, the letter you received detailed
the scholarship amount. If you have any questions regarding scholarships, please contact the
MSPO Registrar. Direct deposit is the quickest way to receive any refunds or scholarship money;
see instructions to sign up.
If you require Financial Aid, please see the Next Steps for Financial Aid Guide (in Canvas)
created especially for MS Programs Students. This guide provides helpful steps for both
domestic and international students.
Option III Limitations on Financial Aid and Employment
The Texas MS Program is an Option III graduate degree, and therefore is governed by the
guidelines for Option III programs
(https://utexas.app.box.com/s/w2autodrvwhdp5uyiezkzddvlqlgfnva) established by the Office
of Graduate Studies.
From these guidelines:
Students registered in these degree programs are not eligible for university financial aid,
except federal guaranteed loans and some private sector loans. They may not be offered
TA, AI, GRA, AA, or A(G) appointments or department fellowships. They will receive no other
student "benefits" unless specific arrangements have been made and the appropriate costs
(fees) have been paid.

In addition to the academic appointment restrictions for Option III students listed above, we
strongly discourage full- or part-time employment while enrolled in a full-time McCombs MS
Program. The intense nature of the coursework, co-curricular and career workshops and
sessions, and significant amount of time needed for class attendance and assignment

[[page 15]]
Page 14 of 24
completion leave very little time to take on outside pursuits. Further, employment during the
MS Program impacts others in the cohort. MS Program curricula involves several team-based
assignments, including the Capstone/Practicum course, which rely on a cohort model where
schedules are coordinated similar to professional work settings. Ongoing outside
commitments limit availability to complete and contribute to these assignments, which may
result in failing to receive credit for team deliverables.

International Student Fees and Insurance
All international students at The University of Texas at Austin are required to pay the $125 ISSS
Support Services fee (https://world.utexas.edu/isss/about/fees) every semester. This fee will be
included on your invoice on the What I Owe page, which is accessible via MyUT.
Additionally, F-1 and J-1 international students are required to be covered by health insurance
when enrolled at the University. ISSS provides health insurance
(https://world.utexas.edu/isss/insurance/students) to students who do not have coverage,
which is provided and billed to international students automatically, unless an insurance waiver
(https://world.utexas.edu/isss/insurance/students/waivers) form is submitted in a timely
manner. Health insurance fees are also included on your invoice on the What I Owe page. The
Texas MS program does not cover these charges.

[[page 16]]
Page 15 of 24
Addendum A: MSBA Curriculum
Degree Requirements
The Master of Science in Business Analytics (MSBA) Option III degree program is designed to teach
rigorous and innovative content that will provide students with master's level knowledge, skills and
abilities in the field of business analytics. All courses indicated as core below are requirements for
graduation. All Texas MSBA students are responsible for completing the following requirements* in the
General Curriculum Track or Financial Analytics Track with a minimum of 36 credit hours in order to earn
a Master of Science in Business Analytics:
SUMMER TERM (6 credit hours)
STA 380: Introduction Machine Learning (Core)
MIS 381N: Data Science Programming (Core)
FIN 294: Introduction to Finance Analytics (Elective)

FALL TERM (16 credit hours)
MIS 382N: Advanced Machine Learning (Core)
MIS 284N: Analytics for Unstructured Data (Core)
RM 294.1: Optimization I (Core)
BA 385T: Financial Management (Core, Optional Upon Approval)
MIS 381N: Information Management (Core, Optional Upon Approval)
MIS 382.56: Marketing Analytics I (Elective)
FIN 684F: Advanced Corp. Finance/Investment Theory (Elective)
MIS 281N.30: Privacy Preserving Analytics (Elective)
O M 286: Analysis/Control/Improvement Supply Chain (Elective)
O M 286: Analytics for Supply Chain Planning and Distribution (Elective)

SPRING TERM (14 credit hours)
STA 280: Unsupervised Learning (Core)
RM 294.2: Optimization II (Core)
MIS 382N.11: Business Intelligence Capstone (Core)
O M 386: Adv Data Analytics in Marketing (Elective)
O M 386: Demand Analytics/Pricing (Elective)
RM 294: Financial Technology (Elective)
MIS 284N: Social Medial Analytics (Elective)
OM 386: Data Driven Healthcare Ops (Elective)
FIN 294.6: Fixed Income Analysis (Elective for Financial Analytics Track only)
FIN 285F: Financial Modeling/Testing (Elective for Financial Analytics Track only)
STA 280.19: Time Series (Elective)
MIS 285N: Artificial Intelligence Ethics (Elective)
MIS 284N: Applied Data Storytelling (Elective)
*some courses are subject to change

[[page 17]]
Page 16 of 24
Addendum B: MSF Curriculum
Degree Requirements
The Master of Science in Finance (MSF) Option III degree program is designed to teach rigorous and
innovative content that will provide students with master's level knowledge, skills and abilities in the
field of finance. All Texas MSF students are responsible for completing the following requirements with
a minimum of 36 credit hours in order to earn a Master of Science in Finance. All courses indicated as
core below are requirements for graduation. The MS Finance degree requires students to select 10
hours of elective coursework in the spring semester. Some courses are subject to change.
SUMMER TERM (6 credit hours)
B A 285T: Financial Management (Core)
FIN 286: Valuation I (Core)
B A 284T : Financial Accounting (Core)

FALL TERM (15 credit hours)
FIN 297.1: Investment Theory and Practice (Core)
FIN 294.1: Advanced Corporate Finance (Core)
B A 280S: Managerial Economics (Core)
ACC 280K: Intermediate Accounting I (Core)
B A 286T: Statistics (Core)
FIN 294.17: Advanced Valuation and Financial Modeling (Core)
B A 191.1: Practicum in Finance (Core)
FIN 294: Valuation II

SPRING TERM (15 credit hours)
FIN 294.1: Advanced Corporate Finance II (Core)
ACC 280K.7: Financial Statement Analysis (Core)
B A 191.1: Practicum in Finance (Core)
B A 191: Financial Statement Analysis II (Elective)
ACC 280K: Intermediate Accounting II (Elective)
B A 291.3: Principles of Commercial Real Estate (Elective)
FIN 297.2: Portfolio Management and Security Analysis (Elective)
FIN 294.11: Private Equity (Elective)
FIN 294.8: Financial Strategies for Energy Firms (Elective)
FIN 297.4: Financial Risk Management (Elective)
FIN 294.2: Advanced Valuation for Consultants (Elective)
FIN 294.7: Raising Capital (Elective)
FIN 294.13: Valuation of Energy Investments (Elective)
FIN 297.5: Fixed Income Analysis (Elective)
B A 292E: Wealth Management (Elective)
FIN 284F: AI & Portfolio Management (Elective)

[[page 18]]
Page 17 of 24

[[page 19]]
Page 18 of 24
Addendum C: MSITM Curriculum
Degree Requirements
The Master of Science in Information Technology & Management (MSITM) Option III degree
program is designed to teach rigorous and innovative content that will provide students with
master's level knowledge, skills, and abilities in the field of IT. All courses indicated as core
below are requirements for graduation. All Texas MSITM students are responsible for
completing 36 hours of coursework without thesis or report.
SUMMER TERM (6 credit hours)
MIS 385N.9: Advanced Programming & App Development I (Core)
MIS 385N.8: Design Methods (Core)

FALL TERM (15 credit hours)
MIS 285N: MIS285N Advanced Programming and App Development II (Core)
MIS 382N: Fundamentals of Neural Networks/Machine Learning (Core)
MIS 281N.28: Data Management (Core)
MIS 285N: Mathematical Foundations of AI (Core)
B A 385T: Financial Management (Core)
MIS 385N: Problem Solving with Unstructured Data and Gen AI (Core)

SPRING TERM (15 credit hours)
MIS 385N.4: IT Capstone (Core)
MIS 385N.3: Risk Governance in AI & Intellegent Automation (Core)
MIS 285N.6: Strategic IT & Digital Transformation (Core)
MIS 185N: Blockchain Solution Development Using Smart Contracts (Elective)
MIS 185N: Data Governance and Responsible AI (Elective)
MIS 185N: Managing Data Product for AI (Elective)
MIS 285N: AI in the Enterprise (Elective)
MIS 285N: Generative AI I (Elective)
MIS 285N: Generative AI II (Elective)
MIS 185N: Human Dimensions of Cybersecurity (Elective)
MIS 285N: Financial Technology (Elective)
MIS 285N: Product Management (Elective)
MIS 285N: Project Management (Elective)
MIS 185N: Technical Foundations of AI Driven Cybersecurity (Elective)
*some courses are subject to change

[[page 20]]
Page 19 of 24

[[page 21]]
Page 20 of 24
Addendum D: MSM Curriculum
Degree Requirements
The Master of Science in Marketing (MSM) Option III degree program is designed to teach
rigorous and innovative content that will provide students with master's level knowledge, skills
and abilities in the field of marketing. All Texas MSM students are responsible for completing
the following requirements with a minimum of 36 credit hours in order to earn a Master of
Science in Marketing. *All courses indicated as core below are requirements for
graduation. The MS Marketing degree requires 2 hours of elective coursework in the Fall
semester and 1 hour of elective coursework in the Spring semester. Courses subject to change.

SUMMER TERM (9 credit hours)
BA 381T: Marketing Management (Core)
BA 385T: Financial Management (Core)
MKT 382: Statistics for Marketing (Core)

FALL TERM (14 credit hours)
MKT 382: Data Analysis (Core)
MKT 382.56: Marketing Analytics I (Core)
MKT 282.55: Data Analytics & Dynamic Pricing (Core)
MKT 282.57: Brand & Growth Strategy (Core)
MKT 282.33: Design Thinking (Core)
MKT 182.19: Clients, Consulting, & Communication (Elective)
MKT 182: Consumer Well-Being (Elective)
MKT 182: Data Visualization/Storytelling (Elective)
MKT 182.20: Human Insights (Elective)
MKT 182: Experimental Design (Elective)

SPRING TERM (13 credit hours)
MKT 282: Consumer Behavior(Core)
MKT 382: Digital Marketing and Measurement (Core)
MKT 282: Marketing Analytics II (Core)
MKT 382: Marketing Intelligence Capstone (Core)
MKT 282: Market Data & Demand Modeling (Elective)
MKT 182: SQL (Elective)
MKT 182: The Role of Marketing in Social Bias (Elective)
MKT 182: AI in Marketing (Elective)
MKT 182: Marketing Analytics III (Elective)

[[page 22]]
Page 21 of 24

Handbook Acknowledgement

I acknowledge that I have received a copy of the Texas Master of Science Programs Student
Handbook, which describes important information regarding the program and understand that I
should consult with program staff if I have questions.
Since the information and policies described here are subject to change, I acknowledge that
revisions to the Handbook may occur and that I will be notified should the program make any
changes.
I understand and agree that I have read and agree to comply with the policies contained in this
Handbook and am bound by the provisions contained therein.
Student Name (printed): Date:
_________________________________________ _____________________________
Student Signature:
______________________________________________________________________________

[[page 23]]
Page 22 of 24
THE UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS AT AUSTIN
PHOTO/VIDEO RELEASE FORM

For valuable consideration, I do hereby authorize The University of Texas at Austin, and those
acting pursuant to its authority to:

a) Record my participation and appearance on videotape, audiotape, film, photograph, or
any other medium
b) Use my name, likeness, voice, and biographical material in connection with these
recordings
c) Exhibit or distribute such recording in whole or in part without restrictions or limitation
for any education or promotional purpose with which The University of Texas at Austin,
and those acting pursuant to its authority, deem appropriate.

I agree that a photocopy, scan, fax copy or digital image of this form shall have the full force
effect of an original.

Name:

Address:

Phone
Number:

Email address:

Signature: __________________________ Date: _________________

[[page 24]]
Page 23 of 24
THE UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS AT AUSTIN
RELEASE AND INDEMNIFICATION AGREEMENT - Adult Student
STUDENT: UT EID:
Name (last name first - please print or type)

Address

City, State, Zip Code DESCRIPTION OF ACTIVITY OR TRIP: - Programming and Activities in and around the Austin, San Antonio, Dallas, or Houston Metro Areas.

MODE OF TRANSPORTATION: Self-driven, school provided coach, and/or student carpool

LOCATION(s) of activity or trip:

DATE(s) of activity or trip: FROM July 1, 2026 TO June 1, 2027

I, the above-named student, am eighteen years of age or older and have voluntarily applied to
participate in the above Activity or Trip. I acknowledge that the nature of the Activity or Trip may expose
me to hazards or risks that may result in my illness, personal injury or death and I understand and
appreciate the nature of such hazards and risks.

In consideration of my participation in the Activity or Trip, I hereby accept all risk to my health and of
my injury or death that may result from such participation and I hereby release the University of Texas
at Austin, its governing board, officers, employees and representatives from any and all liability to me,
my personal representatives, estate, heirs, next of kin, and assigns for any and all claims and causes of
action for loss of or damage to my property and for any and all illness or injury to my person, including
my death, that may result from or occur during my participation in the Activity or Trip, whether caused
by negligence of the University of Texas at Austin, its governing board, officers, employees, or
representatives, or otherwise. I further agree to indemnify and hold harmless the University of Texas at
Austin and its governing board, officers, employees, and representatives from liability for the injury or
death of any person(s) and damage to property that may result from my negligent or intentional act or
omission while participating in the described Activity or Trip.

I HAVE CAREFULLY READ THIS AGREEMENT AND UNDERSTAND IT TO BE A RELEASE OF ALL CLAIMS AND CAUSES
OF ACTION FOR MY INJURY OR DEATH OR DAMAGE TO MY PROPERTY THAT OCCURS WHILE PARTICIPATING IN
THE DESCRIBED ACTIVITY OR TRIP AND IT OBLIGATES ME TO INDEMNIFY THE PARTIES NAMED FOR ANY
LIABILITY FOR INJURY OR DEATH OF ANY PERSON AND DAMAGE TO PROPERTY CAUSED BY MY NEGLIGENT OR
INTENTIONAL ACT OR OMISSION.

Signature of Student Date Signed

[[page 25]]
page 1 | 3

McCombs Career Management Code of Ethics

INTRODUCTION
Welcome to the McCombs Career Management Code of Ethics, a guide to ethical and professional conduct in
recruiting at McCombs School of Business. This code outlines the expectations and responsibilities for
students engaging in career development activities.

McCombs Career Management & Corporate Relations (CMCR) facilitates recruiting interactions for students
and companies, partnering with a diverse range of employers. Student participation in any in-person or
virtual recruitment activities requires adherence to the McCombs Career Management Code of Ethics
and acknowledgment of the McCombs Career Management Recruiting Agreement. Please familiarize
yourself with the following guidelines to understand our expectations and your responsibilities as a student:

STUDENT RESPONSIBILITIES & CAREER MANAGEMENT EXPECTATIONS

1. Demonstrate Professionalism in All Recruiting Activities and Relationships:

* Prepare for all recruiting activities and engagements by conducting thorough research on companies
and industries.
* Dress appropriately for each event, adhering to business professional or business casual attire as
specified.
* Arrive punctually to all events and interviews, demonstrating respect for staff and employers' time and
resources.
* Maintain professional communication etiquette in all interactions with recruiters, employers, and
career management staff. (e.g., respond to every interview offer or offer of employment, whether you
accept or reject it).

2. Represent Yourself Authentically & Recruit with Genuine Intention:

* Provide accurate and complete information on all career-related materials, including resumes and
applications. This includes work eligibility, sponsorship status, GPA, and graduation date when listed.
* Apply only for positions that align with career interests and qualifications to avoid reducing
opportunities for peers. For interview practice, utilize Career Management staff and mock interview
instead of real job interviews.
* Report all job and internship offers promptly and accurately in RecruitMcCombs. Offer data is
confidential and crucial for students, recruiters, administrators, and McCombs' rankings.

3. Honor All Recruiting, Employment, and Academic Commitments:

* Attend all scheduled events, workshops, and interviews, avoiding conflicts and cancellations
unless genuinely unavoidable.
* Stand behind your commitments after accepting an internship or job offer, including withdrawing
from other opportunities and notifying relevant parties.
* Understand that reneging, which involves accepting an offer and later withdrawing, is unethical
and may result in significant consequences, including loss of career resources and damage to your
professional reputation.
* Schedule recruiting activities outside of class times. Missing class for recruiting is discouraged. If
unavoidable, it is the student's responsibility to communicate to faculty in advance to make alternative
arrangements, though approval is at the faculty's discretion.

McCombs Career Management expects students to adhere to the outlined ethical principles and recruiting
requirements. Recognizing that recruiting can present challenging situations, we encourage students to use
CMCR resources and staff to navigate these professionally, thereby strengthening the McCombs community.

[[page 26]]
page 2 | 3

Our team is equipped to assist with researching and negotiating job terms, evaluating multiple offers, and
communicating with employers. Students with concerns about accepted offers should consult a Career Coach
for guidance that upholds ethical standards and professional integrity.

CONSEQUENCES FOR CODE OF ETHICS VIOLATIONS:

Reneging (Full-time and Internship Offers) or Misrepresentation of Qualifications
Access to the McCombs School of Business ecosystem offers unique advantages, including exclusive job
opportunities, industry insights, and networking events. As such, violations have serious consequences.

* 1st Offense: Loss of access to RecruitMcCombs including jobs and interviews, events, and employer
contacts, for the remainder of the current semester and next long semester (e.g., fall, spring).
* 2nd Offense: Permanent loss of access to RecruitMcCombs resources.
* Additional Consequences: Submission of a Code of Ethics reflection paper and a required meeting
with the Director of Career Education & Coaching for your program.
* Further Implications of Reneging:
o Damaged Relationships and Reputation: Reneging harms professional relationships with
employers, damages your personal reputation, and negatively impacts the school's standing.
o Reduced Opportunities for All: Employers may discontinue recruiting at McCombs due to
reneging incidents, limiting future opportunities for all students.

Late Cancellations or No Shows to Interviews
Interviews are highly sought-after opportunities, and canceling without proper notification is disrespectful to
peers and presents a negative image to employers. Valid documentation is required for unforeseeable
cancellations. Failure to cancel or no-show may lead to loss of access to RecruitMcCombs and a meeting
requirement with the Director of Career Education and Coaching. See full Interview Cancellation Policy for
details.

Please note, that if we receive information that a student has violated university policy they will be referred to
The University of Texas at Austin - Student Conduct and Academic Integrity in the Office of the Dean of
Students for review and potential future action.

COMPLIANCE & APPEALS

Compliance Process

All students must review and comply with the McCombs Career Management Code of Ethics and acknowledge
the Recruiting Agreement at the start of each academic year. Students should review the policy and seek
clarifications from Career Management staff if needed. Please note that the Code of Ethics applies universally
to all aspects of the career journey and recruitment process while you are a student at McCombs. As such, the
above policies apply regardless of whether you secure an interview or job through RecruitMcCombs, the UT
Austin Job Board, or an external source (e.g., LinkedIn, Indeed, networking, etc.).

Appeals Process

Please consult the Director of Career Education & Coaching for your program if you have questions regarding
your individual circumstances or about penalties for policy violations.

BBA: Morgan Medina, Director of BBA Career Education & Coaching
MPA, MSBA, MSBA-WP , MSF, MSITM, MSM, MSTC: Denise Flores, Director of MPA & MS Career Education
& Coaching

Your dedication to the McCombs Career Management Code of Ethics is key to preserving our esteemed
reputation and fostering an inclusive environment for all students. By embracing these principles, you uphold
the highest standards of professionalism and ethical conduct, ensuring continued success and abundant
opportunities for everyone in the McCombs community.

[[page 27]]
page 3 | 3

McCombs Career Management Recruiting Agreement
(Acknowledged via RecruitMcCombs)

Student participation in any in-person or virtual recruitment activities requires adherence to the McCombs
Career Management Code of Ethics.
Acceptance of Employment Offers:

I acknowledge that by accepting an offer of employment, whether verbally or otherwise, I am making a
commitment to that offer. I agree to discontinue interviewing for other positions and promptly update my
RecruitMcCombs profile with the details of my accepted offer. Additionally, I will inform all other employers
with whom I have interviewed that I am no longer available for consideration.

Accuracy of Information:

I will provide employers, career management, and/or RecruitMcCombs with accurate information about my
academic credentials, GPA, work eligibility, graduation date, work experience, and career interests on my
resume and in any digital or in-person communication.

Punctuality, Preparedness, and Professionalism:

I pledge to arrive punctually and fully prepared for all scheduled events, workshops, and interviews, ensuring
that I represent McCombs with professionalism during interactions with employers, alumni, and staff.

If unable to attend, I will cancel my registration/interview on RecruitMcCombs and notify the employer or
career management as soon as possible.

Interviewing Integrity:

I commit to interviewing for jobs and internships only when genuinely interested in joining the company.
Understanding Consequences of Violations & Seeking Guidance:

I understand that violating The McCombs Career Management Code of Ethics may result in consequences,
including restricted access to RecruitMcCombs resources.

I will seek clarification and guidance from Career Management as needed.
By acknowledging this agreement in RecruitMcCombs, I affirm that I have read and agree to abide by the
terms, conditions, and spirit of the McCombs Career Management Code of Ethics outlined above.