[[page 1]]
Master of Science
in Medical Sciences

concentration in

Health Outcomes & Implementation Science
Or
Biomedical Informatics
Department of Health Outcomes & Biomedical Informatics
College of Medicine

http://hobi.med.ufl.edu/

Student Handbook

Fall 2020 Cohort

Updated August 2020

[[page 2]]
2
Table of Contents
Introduction
Chair's Welcome (p. 3)
Associate Chair of Education Welcome (p.4)
Associate Director of Education Welcome (p. 5)
The University of Florida
Overview (p. 6)
Health Science Center (p. 6)
College of Medicine (p. 7)
Department of Health Outcomes & Biomedical Informatics (p. 7)
Department of Health Outcomes & Biomedical Informatics Graduate Programs
Programs Overview (p. 8)
Student Mentoring and Guidance (p. 8)
Supervisory Committee (p. 9)
Health Outcomes & Implementation Science Concentration Curriculum (p. 10)
Biomedical Informatics Concentration Curriculum (p.11)
Transfer of Credits / Course Substitutions (p. 12)
Registration (p. 13)
Elective Courses
Research Courses
MS Non-Thesis Option/Thesis and Defense (p. 14)
Graduation Requirements (p. 14)
Credits
Grade Point Average
Policies and Resources
Conduct and Honor Codes (p. 15)
Counseling & Wellness Center (p. 15)
Dates and Deadlines (p. 15)
Diversity and Inclusion (p. 16)
E-mail and Off-campus Access (p. 16)
Health Insurance (p. 16)
HIPAA Training (p. 16)
Housing (p. 17)
Leave of Absence (p. 17)
Libraries (p. 17)
Sexual Harassment (p. 17)
Traffic and Parking Regulations (p. 18)
UF Police Department (p. 18)
Work-related Injuries (p. 18)

[[page 3]]
3
Introduction and Welcome from the
Chair of Health Outcomes & Biomedical Informatics

Welcome to the Department of Health Outcomes & Biomedical Informatics, housed in the University of
Florida's College of Medicine. We are excited you have chosen to pursue your graduate degree with
us.

The College of Medicine is the largest of the six colleges that make
up the UF Health Science Center. It is comprised of 28 research-
oriented departments and ranks No. 17 nationally among public
medical schools according to US News & World Report. The
College's mission is to improve health care in Florida, our nation
and the world through excellence and leadership in education,
clinical care, discovery, and service.

The Department of Health Outcomes & Biomedical Informatics is
proud to contribute to the mission of the College through our
extensive research portfolio and innovative graduate education
programs. Last year our department was awarded $31.5 million in
research funding. Our total annual research budget exceeds $100
million. Our goal is to continue increasing this amount and remain
at the top of the College of Medicine's funded departments.

Our research focuses on evaluating the health effects of public policies and health care and conducting
controlled field trials of preventative interventions in community and clinical settings. We are also
home to the Institute for Child Health Policy, which focuses on research promoting the health of
children, adolescents, and young adults.

Our Health Outcomes & Biomedical Informatics MS and PhD programs allow us to provide you with
innovative and specialized training. You will gain a specialized set of tools allowing you to pursue a
variety of career opportunities developing, implementing, and evaluating clinical and community-
based programs that promote health.

We are very proud of our students and their development into the next generation of health outcomes
and biomedical informatics researchers. Welcome to our department!

Elizabeth Shenkman, PhD
Chair, Department of Health Outcomes & Biomedical Informatics
Director, Institute for Child Health Policy
Associate Director, Cancer Population Sciences, UF Health

[[page 4]]
4

Welcome from the Associate Chair of Education

Welcome to the graduate program in Medical Sciences with a
concentration in Health Outcomes & Biomedical Informatics! I hope this
handbook will serve as a resource for you during your journey through
your degree.

As the Director of the Health Outcomes & Biomedical Informatics
Education Programs, I want to ensure that you have the best possible
experience during your time with us. Our Academic Specialist, Corinne
Flowers and I are here to support and guide you through the completion
of your degree.

Our education programs have a lot to offer, and our high quality and
experienced faculty facilitate learning that leads to a foundation for
stronger research capabilities, leadership skills, teaching methods and
successful tools to help not only clinicians as researchers, but also to help our students prepare for a
wide range of careers in the health sciences. I encourage you to pursue as many additional experiences
as you can during your time with us.

We have compiled this handbook to serve as a resource for you as you journey through your degree
program. We are committed to helping you graduate with an outstanding education and a strong
foundation for growth as you move on to the next phase of your career.

I look forward to working with you.

Matthew Gurka Ph.D.
Professor and Associate Chair for Education
Department of Health Outcomes & Biomedical Informatics

[[page 5]]
5

Welcome from the Associate Director of Education
(responsible for the Biomedical Informatics programs)

Welcome to the UF College of Medicine's Department of Health
Outcomes and Biomedical Informatics. When I joined the Department of
Health Outcomes and Biomedical Informatics in August 2019 there was
already a well-established Biomedical Informatics education program
going strongly after welcoming its first Ph.D. student cohort in 2017. In
recent years the footprint of biomedical informatics has increased
tremendously. The Division of Biomedical Informatics has evolved with it
and so have our education programs and student numbers.
Biomedical Informatics today is one of the core disciplines in biomedical
research and we are looking forward to sharing with you the excitement
and curiosity that comes with it. At its foundation Biomedical Informatics
is a transdisciplinary field that brings together people from different
scientific backgrounds and diverse walks of life seeking knowledge and developing skills to improve our
understanding of and capabilities to using computer science methods for the health of our
communities as well as individual patients. We invite you embrace the diversity of our field and we are
working tirelessly to increase the diversity in our faculty and students.
Our educational program is primarily targeted at managing and analyzing large medical data sets. The
growth in the volume and diversity of biomedical data, including electronic health record data, has
accelerated greatly in recent years. In addition, our education programming provides necessary
background knowledge and practical skills in core computer science aspects, such as privacy and
security, software architecture, and knowledge and data management.
The leadership of the education programs of HOBI and the teaching faculty are dedicated to make your
educational experience fulfilling and rewarding. If you have concerns or suggestion of how we can
cater better to the needs of students, don't hesitate to let me personally know.

I wish you all the success in your educational pursuits! Welcome to the team!

Mathias Brochhausen Ph.D.
Associate Professor and Associate Director of Education
Department of Health Outcomes and Biomedical Informatics

[[page 6]]
6
The University of Florida

The University of Florida is one of the nation's largest research universities. It is Florida's oldest
university and has been enrolling students at its Gainesville campus since 1906. UF is an important
component of Florida's economy, providing over 100,000 jobs throughout the state and having an
annual economic impact of over $12.56 billion.

UF is home to 16 academic colleges and more than 200 research centers and institutes. It employs
nearly 5,000 faculty members and enrolls over 56,000 students per year. UF is one of only 17 public,
land-grant university members of the Association of American Universities.

Health Science Center
The UF Health Science Center (HSC) is the country's only academic health center with six health-related
colleges (Dentistry, Medicine, Nursing, Pharmacy, Public Health and Health Professions, and Veterinary
Medicine) located on a single, contiguous campus. UF Health Shands Hospital, UF Health Children's
Hospital, UF Health Shands Cancer Hospital, UF Health Heart & Vascular and UF Health Neuromedicine
Hospital and nine research institutes and centers - UF Health Cancer Center, Clinical and Translational
Science Institute, Emerging Pathogens Institute, Genetics Institute, Institute on Aging, Diabetes
Institute, Institute for Child Health Policy, Norman Fixel Institute for Neurological Diseases and the
Evelyn F. and William L. McKnight Brain Institute - are also located on the HSC campus.
The mission of the HSC is to promote health through outstanding patient care, innovative and rigorous
education in the health professions and biomedical sciences, and high-impact research across the
spectrum of basic, translational and clinical investigation.

[[page 7]]
7
College of Medicine

The College of Medicine is the largest of the six colleges in the HSC. The Gainesville campus is
composed of 28 clinical and basic science departments with over 1,300 faculty members. The
Jacksonville campus houses an additional 400 physicians and scientists. The UF College of Medicine
works in close collaboration with UF Health Shands Hospitals, the Malcom Randall Veterans Affairs
Medical Center, and several other community healthcare sites and other affiliated hospitals in Florida.

The College's medical education program has graduated over 4,000 MD physicians since its first
graduating class in 1960. The College also offers graduate degree programs in Medical Sciences,
Biomedical Engineering, Physician Assistant Studies, and the Interdisciplinary Program in Biomedical
Sciences, allowing talented researchers and professionals not interested in pursuing an MD the
opportunity to pursue careers in medical and health care fields.

Department of Health Outcomes & Biomedical Informatics

The Department of Health Outcomes and Biomedical Informatics is a diverse, multidisciplinary faculty
of health services researchers, epidemiologists, biomedical informaticians, economists, biostatisticians,
psychologists and social scientists whose goal is to advance the scientific knowledge necessary to
improve health care delivery, leverage big data, advance health research, and help the most vulnerable
populations. The Department is also the home of the Institute for Child Health Policy, which conducts
innovative policy studies and intervention trials to promote the health of children, adolescents and
young adults.

The department is home to
approximately 25 faculty
members and more than 100
full-time research and
administrative staff. Faculty and
staff information, including
contact information, can be
found on the HOBI website.

UF Clinical & Translational Research Building

[[page 8]]
8
HOBI Graduate Programs Overview

Our graduate programs are designed to give graduates the necessary knowledge to conduct health
outcomes assessments and clinical effectiveness research in a range of biomedical, clinical and
community-based research settings. Upon completion of the program, students will understand how
to develop and evaluate health interventions, treatments, prevention practices, and policies, and to
determine what works on a large-scale level and why.

The curriculum provides training in research methods, methods for translating research into policy and
practice, and health policy processes and their influence on health care practices and delivery in both
clinical and community settings. Students will learn to evaluate the effects that existing and proposed
health policies have on health care access, quality, and costs. They will also gain in-depth exposure to
current issues in dissemination research and implementation science. Throughout the curriculum,
special focus will be placed on health disparities and vulnerable populations. The structure of the
program provides one-on-one mentored research experience with faculty and the opportunity to be a
part of ongoing research being conducted in the department. MS students in the department of
Health Outcomes and Biomedical Informatics can be part-time or full-time students.

Student Mentoring and Guidance

Choosing a Research Mentor
It is recommended that students meet with several faculty members whose research interests coincide
with their educational goals before selecting a research mentor. The Education Director will provide
advice/recommendations to students about potential mentor matches during the student's first
semester. Students will be expected to identify a mentor by the mid-point of their first semester. The
student's research mentor will serve as the Chair of their thesis or Capstone Research Project for the
M.S. Supervisory Committee. An M.S. student may have an external member from the University serve
on their committee if their initial committee members and chair approve the external member's
participation.

Students who wish to change research mentors may do so by providing a written request to the HOBI
Academic Coordinator or Education Director. To request such a change, the student must be in good
academic standing, and both the original and proposed new mentors must be aware of and agree to
the change. Research mentor changes can occur for a number of reasons, including a change in
research interests or funding availability.

If the change request involves a personality conflict between the student and Research Mentor,
students must first meet with the Education Director or other HOBI leadership before initiating the
change request.

[[page 9]]
9
Supervisory Committee

Supervisory Committees must be selected by the end of the semester in which the student has
accumulated 12 credits. This is typically the end of the student's second semester; however, students
enrolling in 12 credits their first semester must select their Committee by the end of that semester.
The Dean of the Graduate School is an ex-officio member of all Supervisory Committees.

Once the Supervisory Committee has been selected, the student must complete the HOBI Supervisory
Committee Agreement. The student must obtain signatures from all committee members before
submitting the Agreement to the Academic Coordinator. The signed Agreement will be reviewed and
approved by the Education Director before the committee is entered into the UF Graduate School
system.

The MS Supervisory Committee will be composed of a minimum of 2 and maximum of 5 members.
MS Supervisory Committee qualifications are as follows:
Member Member Type Required to be
HOBI faculty?
Graduate Faculty (GF)
Status
Must be tenured or
accruing tenure?
1
(required)
Chair/Research Mentor

Yes Required, must have GFS
in Medicine
Yes
2
(required)
Co-Chair -or- Member Yes Required, must have GFS
in Medicine or another
department
Yes
3-5
(optional)
Additional Members

No GF status not required.
Requires special approval
No

Students who wish to have a Supervisory Committee Chair different from their Research Mentor must
obtain approval from the Research Mentor, Education Director, and the proposed Chair.

Changes in Supervisory Committee members are acceptable until the midpoint of the student's final
term as long as the thesis defense has not occurred. No changes in Supervisory Committee are
allowed after the defense.

Curriculum Committee
The HOBI Education Curriculum Committee is comprised of HOBI faculty from both concentrations and
two current doctoral students, one from each concentration. The curriculum committee members
participate in the evaluation and review of all degree and non-degree educational activities in the
department. The committee reviews and votes on new courses, requests from students to transfer
credits, and any course modifications. This committee meets monthly.

Student Recruitment and Admissions Committee
The HOBI Student Recruitment and Admissions Committee is comprised of HOBI faculty from both
concentrations and two current graduate students, one from each concentration. The committee is
charged with the responsibility to review and make decisions on admissions, and to assist in student
recruitment methods and efforts. The committee meets monthly.

[[page 10]]
10
MS Curriculum in Health Outcomes and Implementation Science (HOIS)
The MS in Medical Sciences with a concentration in Health Outcomes & Implementation Science is a minimum 32 credit hour
degree program. The curriculum is comprised of:

Course Title Credits
Core - 9 credits
GMS 6822 Measuring and Analyzing Health Outcomes 3 Letter grade
GMS 6851 Fundamentals of Dissemination and Implementation Research 3 Letter-grade
GMS 6885 Translational Health Research Design 3 Letter-grade
Research Rigor and Ethics - 2 credits
GMS 7877 Responsible Conduct of Biomedical Research 1 Letter-grade
GMS 6848 Ensuring Rigor and Reproducibility in Clinical and Translational Research 1 Letter-grade
Statistics Courses - 3 credits
PHC 6052 or
STA 6166
Introduction to Biostatistical Methods -or-
Statistical Methods in Research I 3 Letter-grade
Methods - Select 3 courses (6-9 credit hours)
GMS 6829 Longitudinal Research Design 2 Letter-grade
GMS 6832 Economic Methods for Evaluating Value in Health Care 3 Letter-grade
GMS 6844 Time Series and Quasi-Experimental Design for Health Outcomes Research 2 Letter-grade
GMS 6813 Pragmatic Clinical Trials 2 Letter-grade
GMS 6846 Meta-Analysis in Clinical, Health Services Research, & Public Health 2 Letter-grade
GMS 6803 Data Science for Clinical Research 3 Letter-grade
GMS 6850 Foundations of Biomedical Informatics 3 Letter-grade
PHC 6020 or
PHC 6022
Clinical Trial Method s -or -
Design & Conduct of Clinical Trials 3 Letter-grade
Health Outcomes Courses - Select 1 course (3 credits)
GMS 6833 Health Outcomes Research in Vulnerable Populations 3 Letter-grade
GMS 6835 Health Outcomes Research in Children 3 Letter-grade
GMS 6812 Health Outcomes Research in Cancer 3 Letter-grade
GMS 6802 Health Outcomes Research for Chronic Diseases 3 Letter-grade
Implementation Science Foundations Courses (minimum 3 credits)
GMS 6836 Foundations of Learning Health System Research 1 S/U
GMS 6852
Community Engaged Research for Clinical Effectiveness and Implementation
Science Studies 2 Letter-grade
GMS 6853 Applied Topics in Dissemination & Implementation Science 3 Letter-grade
Capstone Mentored Research Experience - (6 credit hours of one course option)
GMS 6905
GMS 6971
Independent Study in Medical Sciences (Non- Thesis Eligible) -or-
Research for Master's Thesis (Thesis Eligible)
6 Letter-grade
6 S/U
Total: 32-35

[[page 11]]
11
MS Curriculum in Biomedical Informatics
The MS in Medical Sciences with a concentration Biomedical Informatics is a minimum 36-credit hour degree program, with at
least 22 credits specific to the BMI concentration. The curriculum is comprised of:

Course Title Credits
Core Courses - select all (16 credits)
GMS 6803 Data Science for Clinical Research 3 Letter-grade
GMS 6804 Translational Bioinformatics 3 Letter-grade
GMS 6805 Introduction to Applied Ontology 3 Letter-grade
GMS 6806 Security and Privacy for Clinical Research 3 Letter-grade
GMS 6850 Foundations of Biomedical Informatics 3 Letter-grade
GMS 7887 Health Outcomes & Biomedical Informatics PhD Research Seminar 1 S/U Letter-grade
Foundation Courses - select 2 courses (6 credits)
GMS 6856 Introduction to Biomedical Natural Language Processing 3 Letter-grade
BME 6938 Introduction to Biomedical Image Analysis and Imaging Informatics 3 Letter-grade
CEN 5035 Software Engineering 3 Letter-grade
COP 5725 Database Management Systems 3 Letter-grade
GMS 6822 Measuring and Analyzing Health Outcomes 3 Letter-grade
PHC 6410 Psychological, Behavioral, and Social Issues in Public Health 3 Letter-grade
PHC 6405 or
PHC 6001
Theoretical Foundations of Public Health or
Principles of Epidemiology in Public Health 3 Letter-grade
GMS 7866 Principles of Referent Tracking in Biomedical Informatics 3 Letter-grade
Statistics Courses - select 1course (3 credits)
STA 6166 Statistical Methods in Research I 3 Letter-grade
PHC 6050 Statistical Methods for Health Science Research I 3 Letter-grade
PHC 6052 Introduction to Biostatistical Methods 3 Letter-grade
Advanced Electives - select 2 courses (5-6 credits)
CAP 5100 Human-Computer Interaction 3 Letter-grade
CAP 5510 Bioinformatics 3 Letter-grade
CAP 5635 Artificial Intelligence Concepts 3 Letter-grade
CAP 6610 Machine Learning 3 Letter-grade
COP 5725 Database Management Systems 3 Letter-grade
COT 5405 Analysis of Algorithms 3 Letter-grade
COT 5615 Mathematics for Intelligent Systems 3 Letter-grade
COP 5618 Concurrent Programming 3 Letter-grade
PHI 5135 Graduate Logic 3 Letter-grade
BME 6938 Special Topics: Machine Learning for Health and Biomedical Applications 3 Letter-grade
STA 6167 Statistical Methods in Research II 3 Letter-grade
STA 5325 Fundamentals of Probability 3 Letter-grade
GMS 6848 Ensuring Rigor and Reproducibility in Clinical and Translational Research 1 Letter-grade
GMS 6885 Translational Health Research Design 3 Letter-grade
GMS 7093 Introduction to Clinical and Translational Research 2 Letter-grade
Capstone Mentored Research Experience ( 6 credit hours of one course option)
GMS 6905
GMS 6971
Independent Studies in Medical Sciences (Non- Thesis Eligible) -or-
Research for Master's Thesis (Thesis Eligible)
6 Letter-grade
6 S/U
Total ( 36 credits minimum)

[[page 12]]
12
Transfer of Credits/Course Substitutions

The HOBI Curriculum Committee will consider:
(1) Accepting previously completed graduate courses in place of HOBI degree requirements
(retrospective Transfer of Credit). This includes courses previously completed at the
University of Florida.
(2) Allowing degree credit for courses not included in HOBI degree curriculum (prospective
Course Substitutions).

All transfer of credit and course substitution requests must follow the UF Graduate School guidelines
for graduate degrees. Only graduate level courses (5000-7999) with a grade of B or higher will be
considered for transfer of credit. No more than 15 previously earned credits can be transferred. An MS
degree earned in a discipline other than HOP will require special consideration before being considered
for transfer of credit.

Before submitting a request, students should review all official UF Master's guidelines.

Transfers of credit and course substitutions are requested by submitting the HOBI Course
Substitution/Transfer of Credit Form to the Academic Coordinator. A rationale for the substitution(s)
that explains how the course(s) relate directly to the HOBI degree must be included. The student's
Research Mentor must approve and sign each request.

Transfer of Credit requests must be submitted during the first semester of enrollment. Previous
academic transcripts and syllabi for all courses proposed for transfer of credit must be included.
Course Substitution requests must be submitted at least one month before scheduled registration for
the proposed course. Syllabi for all proposed courses must be included.

The HOBI Curriculum Committee will review all requests and approve, deny, or request more
information. Students will be informed of the approval/denial of prospective course substitution
requests by the start of the semester of the proposed course. Students have the right to appeal any
elective Course Substitution not approved by their mentor. Appeals will be reviewed and voted on by
the Curriculum Committee. Appeals should be submitted to the Academic Coordinator on the HOBI
Course Substitution/Transfer of Credit Form and be accompanied by the syllabus and rationale for how
the course directly applies to the student's curriculum.

All requests approved by the HOBI Curriculum Committee are then submitted by petition for approval
by the Dean of the Graduate School before credits will officially be transferred or substituted.

[[page 13]]
13
Registration

Prior to the start of each semester, students must meet with their Research Mentor to review their
academic progress, plan their courses for the next semester, and complete the HOBI Course
Registration Form. Courses being offered will be posted on the HOBI Current Course Schedule site.
Deadlines for submission of the Course Registration Form will be communicated by e-mail each
semester by the Academic Coordinator.

The Academic Coordinator will complete the student's registration. Students will receive e-mail
confirmation when their registration is complete.

Elective Courses
MS students may propose to take additional courses as electives beyond their degree requirements,
with the approval of their Research Mentor. These courses will not count towards the credits required
for completion of the degree.

Research Courses
MS students will complete 6 credits of GMS 6905 Independent Studies in Medical Sciences (Capstone
project for non-thesis) or GMS 6971 Research for Master's Thesis).

Students enrolled in GMS 6905 Independent Studies for Medical Sciences (Capstone project for non-
thesis option) will work with their primary mentor at the beginning of their first semester registering
for GMS 6905 to develop a project proposal. The supervisory committee shall meet with the student to
discuss the fitness of the project. A week before the final exam milestone, the student shall meet
and present the final report to the supervisory committee members. No formal presentation is
required.

Students enrolled in GMS 6971 Research for Master's Thesis will design and conduct a research thesis
with the guidance of their Research Mentor. This mentored research experience is designed to lead to
a publishable manuscript. GMS 6971 will culminate with the preparation of the MS thesis paper and
an oral thesis defense (see page 14 for thesis defense information). Per Graduate School policy, thesis
students are required to take 3 credits of 6971 in their final term (2 credits if the final term is
summer).

To enroll in GMS 6971, students must initiate the process several weeks prior to registration. To enroll
each semester, students must:
- Complete a Thesis/Dissertation Research Contract. This will outline the contact time with
the instructor (Research Mentor), time allocated by the student, and specific plans and
deliverables to be completed during the semester.
- Submit the signed Contract to the Academic Coordinator for registration.

At the end of each semester, students must have completed the work in the contract in order to
receive credit (S/U). Incomplete deliverables will result in the student receiving a grade of Incomplete
("I"), which will be changed once the student has completed the work.

[[page 14]]
14

MS Non-Thesis Option

MS degree students taking the non-thesis option must participate in at least one mentor approved
Grad Development Professional Skills seminar. Upcoming topics and registration information are
available at: https://graddev.ufhealth.org/professional-skills/.

The MS degree for students taking the non-thesis option will culminate with the preparation and
presentation of a Capstone project to their full committee that shows independent investigation. The
Capstone project will be based on work completed during GMS 6905 Independent Studies in Medical
Sciences.

MS Thesis and Defense

The MS degree for students taking the thesis option will culminate with the preparation and
presentation of a thesis that shows independent investigation. The thesis will be based on work
completed during GMS 6971 Research for Master's Thesis.

The oral thesis defense will be scheduled once the Supervisory Committee has determined the thesis is
ready to be defended. This defense typically occurs at the midpoint of the semester during which the
student plans to graduate. The thesis defense will be open to all members of the department, College
of Medicine and anyone outside of the College who wishes to attend. All members of the student's
Supervisory Committee must be present during the oral thesis defense. The Committee Chair must be
physically present at the defense. Other committee members may be present electronically by phone
or video conference per UF Graduate School policy. Immediately following the formal open thesis
defense, the student will meet privately with the Supervisory Committee to finalize completion of the
degree.

The written thesis must be of publishable quality and in a form suitable for publication. This format is
guided by the UF Graduate School. Students should review the Guide for Preparing Theses and
Dissertations before beginning to prepare their thesis.

General Graduation Requirements

Credits
MS students must earn a minimum of 32 credits for the Health Outcomes & Implementation Science
concentration or 36 credits for the Biomedical Informatics concentration to obtain a degree. No more
than 15 credits (earned with a grade of B or higher) can be transferred from previous coursework. At
least half of the MS program credits must be courses within HOBI.

[[page 15]]
15
Grade Point Average
Students must achieve an overall GPA of B (3.0) or better to be awarded a degree. Grade point
averages are computed on all courses at the 5000 level or above and the first 6 semester credit hours
of eligible 3000/4000 level course work outside the major.

Grades earned in courses transferred for credit do not count towards the student's grade point
average.

Students must also maintain an overall GPA of 3.0 or better throughout their graduate career.
Students who fall below a GPA of 3.0 during any semester may request an exemption to remain in the
program one additional semester. This exemption must be requested through the student's Research
Mentor and approved by the Curriculum Committee. If the exemption is granted and the student fails
to upgrade their GPA during the following semester, or falls below a 3.0 GPA in any subsequent
semester, the student is subject to dismissal from the program.

Policies and Resources

Conduct and Honor Codes
We expect our students to maintain the highest levels of honesty, integrity, and ethical conduct.
Students are expected to be familiar with and abide by all UF Student Conduct and Honor Codes. Any
incident involving violation of these codes - including fraud, plagiarism, and cheating - will not be
tolerated and may be grounds for dismissal from the program.
- Fraud typically involves intentional and deliberate misuse of data leading to falsification of
results. This includes the fabrication of data or omission or concealment of conflicting data.
- Plagiarism is the use of someone else's work or ideas and passing them off as one's own.
This includes the use of material with only slight modification or without proper credit given
to the original source.

Ignorance of UF student honor codes by a student will not be an excuse for any actions that occur in
violation. All incidents will be handled according to the guidelines of the UF Office for Student Conduct
and Conflict Resolution.

Counseling & Wellness Center
The UF Counseling & Wellness Center provides a number of counseling services for students. Their
staff is comprised of licensed psychologists, licensed mental health counselors, clinical social workers,
psychiatrists, psychiatric fellows, psychiatric nurse practitioners, postdoctoral associates, psychology
interns, counselor education interns, and practicum counselors. All of their staff are generalists and see
students presenting with a variety of issues. The Counseling & Wellness Center website also contains
many Self-Help Resources that are available 24 hours.

Dates and Deadlines
The Graduate School Academic Calendar publishes all annual critical dates and deadlines. This includes
deadlines for drop/add, fee payments, thesis/dissertation submission, and graduation.

[[page 16]]
16
The Graduate School also sends notification of important deadlines and critical dates via the Graduate
Student Listserv. This Listserv also keeps all UF graduate students informed of academic, research, and
financial opportunities. All currently enrolled graduate students are added to the listserv by their
GatorLink e-mail account; there is no way to opt out of the listserv.

Diversity and Inclusion
It is our intent that students from all diverse backgrounds and perspectives be well served by our
programs, that students' learning needs be addressed both in and out of class, and that the diversity
that students bring to programs be viewed as a resource, strength and benefit. In our programs we
explore ways to bring better health to our communities and individual patients. This goal requires
diverse perspectives. What we achieve, we achieve together as a team consisting of faculty, staff, and
students from diverse backgrounds. This diversity is a possibility for us all to learn and grow. It is our
intent for HOBI courses to present materials and activities that are respectful of diversity: gender,
sexuality, disability, age, socioeconomic status, ethnicity, race, and culture. Since our discussions will
require collaboratively working with different people having different experiences and coming from
different walks of life, we ask all enrollees in our programs to engage in discussion with care and
empathy for the other members in the classroom, in HOBI events, and in general.

Your suggestions are encouraged and appreciated. Please let us know ways to improve the
effectiveness of the programs for you personally or for other students or student groups.

E-mail and Off-Campus access
HOP graduate students are required to use their GatorLink e-mail as their primary e-mail address to
ensure they receive important information from the University and department. GatorLink e-mail
addresses are not allowed to be forwarded to a non-ufl.edu account. This can result in important
information being lost, as third-party providers often block forwarded messages or designate them as
SPAM.

If you need to access UF web resources from off-campus, such as online journals for which UF has
purchased a license/subscription, you must log in via the UF Health Science Center VPN or UF Gatorlink
VPN. This will allow your off-campus computer to act like it is at UF, so you can access sites that are
restricted to UF computers and GatorLink-registered users.

HIPAA Training
In addition to conduct and honor codes, we require our graduate students to maintain active HIPAA
General Awareness training (PRV800) training for the duration of their graduate degree.

Health Insurance
Effective summer 2014, UF now requires all newly admitted students, both domestic and international,
to show proof of health insurance. Students can purchase the UF Student Health Insurance Plan,
administered through the UnitedHealthcare StudentResources or provide evidence of comparable
coverage from an outside entity.

[[page 17]]
17
UF graduate students on an appointment as a graduate assistant, teaching assistant or research
assistant, or those on a Predoctoral Fellowship appointment may also qualify for the GatorGradCare
health insurance plan.

Housing
On-campus housing is available on a limited basis for both single and married students who are
admitted or enrolled and maintain proper academic progress toward a degree at the University of
Florida. Generally a waiting period of at least several months is encountered. Contact Housing &
Residence Education for more information. This office can also provide information on off-campus
rental options. More information on off-campus living can be found at http://www.offcampus.ufl.edu/.

Leave of Absence
Students who do not enroll at UF for three consecutive terms must apply for readmission to the
Graduate School.

Libraries
The Health Science Center Library is located in the Communicore Building of the Health Science Center.
It has a large collection of journals, texts, and reference materials, over 100 computers, and ample
study space. A Gator1 card is required to check out materials.

Health Outcomes & Biomedical Informatics, like other study programs, is assigned a specific librarian
liaison who can help you find resources in your particular subject area. A list of librarian liaisons in the
Health Science Center Library can be found at http://library.health.ufl.edu/services/library-liaisons/.

The HOBI librarian liaison has prepared a guide to library resources for HOBI students at
http://guides.uflib.ufl.edu/hobi.

There are also several other libraries across the main UF campus, including Library West, which houses
the Humanities, Business and Social Sciences holdings, and Marston Science Library, containing the
Agriculture, Life Sciences, Engineering, Physical Sciences, Mathematics and Earth Sciences holdings.

A list of subject specialists for other libraries can be found at
http://apps.uflib.ufl.edu/staffdir/SubjectSpecialist.aspx.

Sexual Harassment
It is the policy of the University of Florida to provide an educational and working environment for its
students, faculty, and staff that is free from sex discrimination and sexual harassment. Sex
discrimination and sexual harassment will not be tolerated, and individuals who engage in such
conduct will be subject to disciplinary action. The University encourages students, faculty, staff, and
visitors to promptly report sex discrimination and sexual harassment.

The Division of Student Affairs provides more information on Sexual Harassment definitions, policies,
and procedures for reporting.

[[page 18]]
18
Traffic and Parking Regulations
All UF students can register a car and obtain a parking decal. Eligibility for parking decals is determined
by the student's local address and academic classification. To obtain a parking decal:

UF Transportation and Parking Services
1273 Gale Lemerand Drive
Gainesville, FL 32611-2400
352-392-7275
http://www.parking.ufl.edu

UF Police Department
UFPD should be contacted for any non-emergency situations occurring on campus by calling 392-1111.
All emergencies should be reported by dialing 911.

The Student Nighttime Auxiliary Patrol (SNAP) is a free nightly service for students that can provide an
escort after dark to anywhere on campus. They can be reached at 392-SNAP.

Work-related Injuries (Worker's Compensation)
For non-serious injuries you should first contact the Worker's Compensation office at 392-4940 for
assistance filling out the forms. You may then go to the Student Infirmary or another designated site
for treatment. For serious injuries you should go directly to the Shands Emergency Room for
treatment. Upon arrival you should inform the admitting clerk of your graduate status and that the
injury is work related. As soon as possible after treatment, contact the Worker's Compensation office
so that a worker's compensation form and accident/injury form can be prepared. After year 1, you
should report to your departmental worker's compensation representation (the department in which
your payroll is processed).