[[page 1]]
1
TA GUIDELINES, Math 104 - 152
These guidelines contain rules that TAs should follow when teaching the large, lower division courses at
OSU. Instructors of these huge courses should follow consistent polices in order to be fair to the students.
That will help alleviate some common problems and will reduce student complaints.
Roles of Lecture and Recitation Instructor.
* The lecturer introduces the mathematical ideas and techniques to the students, discussing the main topics
of each section.
* In Recitation, the TA helps students work through exercises to reinforce the ideas set out in the lecture.
It should be a hands-on experience in which students improve their skills and understanding by solving
problems, with the TA as a guide. The TA can clarify concepts, but should not re-lecture the course
material, despite requests from students!
* The TA keeps accurate grade records throughout the quarter.
The lecturer determines and posts the letter grades.
Exams.
E1. Review sessions and Exam pick-up.
Don't have a review session just before an evening exam, giving students direct hints about the test. It's
not fair to students in other classes when your students get detailed information about the contents of the
upcoming exam.
Before an exam, DO NOT discuss the exam with students
after you have seen the exam!
Giving out restricted exam information is grounds for dismissal.
Exams can be picked up in the Course Office after 2:00 on the day of the exam. Read through the exams
only after you have held your last recitation session and last review session. Then you can honestly say
you don't know exactly what will be on the exam.
E2. Exam Proctoring.
TAs are required to proctor the exams for their classes.
Fairness is a major goal. Here are basic guidelines for exam proctoring:
* Pick up exams after 2:00 p.m. from the Course Office.
(Keep them in a secure place.)
* Arrive early at the exam room. Get students to sit at least one seat apart.
* Ask students to get out their OSU IDs, calculators, and pencils. Have them put all other items on the
floor (coats, notebooks, phones, etc.)
* Distribute exams quickly and on time.
* Ask everyone to check that they have all the exam pages.
* Circulate around the room. Answer questions minimally, giving no hints.
* Exam rooms should be quiet places where students can concentrate on the math problems. Do not
talk during the exam. Leave your children at home!
* Watch for illegal calculators, cell phones, notes, etc.
* Count bodies in the room and later count test papers.
* Announce the remaining time periodically.
* Check IDs & names, especially for those students you don't recognize.
* Pick up papers on time, moving quickly.

[[page 2]]
2
Here are further comments on some of those points.
START ON TIME.
It's not fair if one student starts 5 minutes later than another because distribution is slow. Don't check IDs
as you pass out the papers. It is safest to check IDs and signatures on exam papers as the exams are
handed in.
GIVE NO HINTS.
If a student asks a question during the test, give a minimal answer. Don't say whether their answer is
correct or whether they are on the right track.
Giving hints to the whole class is not fair to other classes.
One exception to this is if there is clearly a misprint on the exam. In that case, correct it in the simplest
way and immediately write the correction on the board and announce it to everyone.
END ON TIME.
Allowing extra time for your students is not fair to students in other test rooms.
E3. Exam Grading.
Exams for large courses are usually graded after the exam at a "grading party". This helps maintain
fairness in grading. A grading guide is provided by the coordinator.
* When you accept employment as a TA you are agreeing to attend all class meetings and the evening
exams and grading sessions. Attendance is part of the job.
* Students read their corrected exams. Do not write inappropriate comments on exam papers.
* Grading guides are not public documents: they should NOT be shown to students.
This includes grading guides from past quarters.
E4. Missed Exams and Make-ups.
All large math courses offer a make-up exam the morning after the evening exam. Students who cannot
attend the scheduled evening exam must contact the lecturer for permission to take the make-up. Students
attending the make-up should bring their ID and permission slip with them to that exam.
* It is the lecturer's responsibility to deal with students who miss exams. Students who cannot find the
lecturer should be sent to the Vice Chair (not to the course coordinator).
Completed make-up exams can be picked up at the Course Office.
Do not give an exam early. Security problems are just too great. Exceptions might be made in some rare
cases, but: special exam arrangements are made by the lecturer, not by the TA. Proctoring should be
done by the lecturer.
E5. Changes to Exam Grades.
It is the lecturer's responsibility to deal with changes in exam scores. TAs should not make changes to
student exam scores, except to correct addition errors in scoring. The student should submit his exam to
the instructors, together with a list of the exam problems to be reviewed and why. Then the lecturer can
make all adjustments in a consistent fashion. The TA should record the changes and return papers to the
student.
* Do not comment to students on whether a particular problem will receive more points. That makes it
more difficult for the lecturer if extra points aren't warranted.
* The lecturer needs to inform the TA of adjustments to the student's score since the TA keeps the
grade records. The simplest method is for the adjusted exam paper to go first to the TA, then
returned to the student.
Students should not be the ones to inform the TA of changes to exam grades!
E6. There is no curve.
Exam scores will not be "curved" or adjusted. We never curve individual exam scores. Letter grades
depend only on total points at the end of the quarter, not on individual test performances. In rare cases
adjustments might be made to letter grade cut-off scores at the end of the quarter. Discuss grade
adjustments only if they have been clearly announced by the course coordinator or Vice-Chair. Do not tell
the students your guesses and conjectures about future adjustments to the scores.

[[page 3]]
3
* Details about grade adjustment policies can be found in the "Guide to Math X" booklet or from the
course coordinator.
E7. Office of Disability Services (ODS).
Some students have disabilities and require special accommodations for testing. In order to get those
accommodations they must go through ODS and have an official evaluation.
EXAMS: All the ODS paperwork for Midterm and Final Exams (in coordinated math courses) is done by
the Course Office, but the students should show official ODS forms to the instructors. The student makes
all Exam arrangements through ODS. Completed exams are returned to the Course Office for the TA to
pick up and grade.
QUIZZES: Typically quizzes are written by the TA and given during recitation. For ODS students, each
TA should try to make local arrangements acceptable to the student, matching the allowed
accommodations. For example, extra quiz time can be given after class or during office hours. However,
students who wish to take quizzes at ODS should be allowed to do so (but they should not miss class time
to take the quiz). In such cases, the TA will fill out an ODS form specifying the quiz dates, duration,
allowed calculators, etc. The TA should also arrange to send a copy of the quiz to ODS (usually by email,
or by fax done through the Course Office). The student will take the quiz at a time scheduled through
ODS, with the completed quiz returned to the Course Office. For further details on this process, check
with Ann Logan.
E8. Exam scores and privacy.
There are federal laws ensuring privacy. Students should receive their graded papers and exams directly:
don't give their papers to friends. They also have the right to check whether the scores and grades are
recorded correctly in the instructor's records. You may send grades to students by email using the
student's official "osu.edu" account.
DO NOT send grades to any other email address.
DO NOT give out grade information over the phone.
Give grade information to the student only (not to parents!).
DO NOT post grades publicly (even with secret codes hiding identities).
However some OSU administrators are authorized to get information on a student's academic progress.
For example, advisors from the Department of Athletics ask about attendance, quiz scores and midterm
grades of student-athletes. Sometimes the Math Counselors need midterm score information in order to
advise students.
Please respond to those requests quickly.
If you have a question of who is authorized to know exam scores, ask the Math Counselors, Cindy
Bernlohr, or a Vice Chair.
E9. Academic Misconduct.
If you notice cheating, report the information immediately to a Vice Chair. If there is sufficient evidence
the Vice Chair can begin the process of reporting the case to the University Committee on Academic
Misconduct. That process results in a grade of "incomplete", with final actions depending on the outcome
of a hearing.
DO NOT take any action yourself in these cases.
Never state that a student cheated. Simply say that there is concern about the student's work.
Do not communicate information about
academic misconduct cases to anyone else!
Even the student's academic advisors are not authorized to know about a pending case.

[[page 4]]
4
Final Grades.
F1. Recitation Points.
Homework and quiz grading policies for each course are usually set by the course coordinator. It is the
TA's responsibility to make sure that the recitation grades are reasonable. The course coordinator should
set guidelines to ensure some uniformity for recitation points. Such guidelines help avoid situations
where one class has significantly higher recitation points than another, although the students are doing
equivalent work.
F2. Final Grades.
Note: At OSU the grades A+ and D - do not exist, and E is the failing grade. The special grades I
and EN are discussed below. Grades for "pass/non-pass" and "audit" are rarely used by students in
mathematics. For more information about these grades, see the Course Office or Vice Chair.
The course coordinator provides letter grade cut-off scores. The TA computes the letter grades following
those cut-offs, noting any borderline cases. The TA then meets with the lecturer to discuss all grades.
Student grades should never be lowered below the cut-off percentages announced on the syllabus or set by
the coordinator. In addition, "nudging" student grades up for improved performance should be done
sparingly. The lecturer makes the final decisions and submits the letter grades.
The grade of "incomplete" or I may be given only when the student:
* has satisfactorily completed most of the work in the class, and
* is currently earning a passing grade.
An I means that the lecturer and the student have discussed the situation and have agreed on the schedule
for completing the missing work. Students who miss the Final Exam and make no prior arrangements
should get the grade E, not I.
The EN grade is for students who either never attended or stopped attending class. For this grade you
must indicate the number of weeks (from 0 to 7) that the student attended class. An E (fail) is given to
students who disappear after week 7.
The EN is computed as an E in the student's GPA.
F3. Departmental Grade Reports.
At the end of the Quarter, the lecturers submit the letter grades of students officially enrolled in the class.
The lecturer should give to the Course Office a paper copy of the official letter grades (printed from the
Registrar's web page).
In addition to that record, each TA is expected to submit detailed Departmental Grade Reports (on paper).
Even when all records are kept electronically on WebCT, the Course Office needs a paper copy. Those
reports provide an accessible permanent record of test and exam scores. It is important to provide them by
the end of the Quarter and to make them readable. Here is the format. (A sample Grade Report is given
on the last page.)

Make the report for each class section on one readable page, displaying:
* Instructor name, course, and call number,
* Student last names in alphabetical order,
* Social Security Numbers,
* Total Recitation score,
* Exam scores (Midterms, Final, & modifications),
* Total points for the Quarter,
* Letter grade.
Details of the quiz and homework scores (which make up the Recitation score) do not need to be
included. Grade report sheets can be done conveniently using Excel or similar software, or by using paper
forms provided in the TA mail room.

[[page 5]]
5
It is important to include ALL students who were registered for or who attended class, whether or not
their names appear on the official roster. Sometimes students claim they attended (or did not attend) a
class some time ago. We need accurate records to verify those claims.
Other Points of Concern.
P1. Student Messages.
Respond promptly to students email messages and phone calls!
If a delay is needed, tell the student you received the message and will get back to them later. The Vice-
Chairs frequently see students who are frustrated because they sent messages, left voicemail, and wrote
paper notes, but got no response from the instructor.
P2. TA mailroom.
We try to keep that room as secure as possible.
* DO NOT send students to the TA mail room.
* Do not leave sensitive materials in the mail room.
Have students pick up or leave materials at the front desk in the Math Tower. If more than a few students
are involved, make other arrangements.
P3. Student Questions and Complaints.
Students often have questions about the mathematical material. They may go to the TA's office hours,
and to the lecturer's office hours. Students should certainly be reminded of the Tutor Rooms in the
MSLC. There may be some additional evening tutoring opportunities in the Younkin Success Center.
Students who want to hire private tutors should be referred to the reception desk in the Math Tower, where
there is a list of qualified private tutors.
Lecturers should handle student complaints. If that is not sufficient, send the student to the
Vice Chair.
DO NOT send students to the course coordinators!
Don't even mention the coordinator's name to the students.
P4. Course Methods.
Keep in mind the mathematical level of the students that you are teaching.
* Stick with the announced course plan.
* Work the problems as they are shown in the textbook or in lecture.
Real difficulties arise when math problems are solved by non-standard methods.
* TECHNOLOGY. Some courses use graphing calculators, others use WeBWORK. Students are
expected to use those technologies, so all the instructors should learn to use them too. Please let the
Vice Chairs know if there is a problem with this.
P5. Communication
It is too easy to have courses where the TAs and lecturers never talk to one another. Email is an easy and
effective means of communication, but face-to-face meetings help build good professional relationships.
You can talk about how the course is going, what topics should be stressed, which exam problems were
hardest for the students, etc. Lecturers are asked to visit the recitation classes of each TA at least once per
quarter. The lecturer will fill out a short evaluation form and submit it to Cindy Bernlohr.
P6. Behavior.
You represent the Department of Mathematics and OSU.
Even though it might not be obvious, students often view their TAs and lecturers as mentors and role
models. Be professional at all times when you interact with students and colleagues.

[[page 6]]
6
* Do not use offensive language in class.
* Do not comment on a student's personal life, life style, ethnic group, or religion.
* It's best not to discuss politics.
Do not have a close personal relationship with someone in your class! Such behavior can be grounds
for dismissal from the University.
P7. Prompt return of student work.
Midterm exams, quizzes, homework, and other assessment should be returned to students as quickly as
possible. Students need the feedback on their work, since there are firm deadlines for withdrawing and
dropping classes.
Midterm exams should be returned within two days.
P8. Exam Papers and Shredding.
Students may review their Final Exam papers, but they may not keep them.
Final exams need to be kept in the Department for one year. These are usually kept by the lecturer, but in
special circumstances they may be stored in the Course Office. Care must be taken with documents
containing student information (like old exams and class rosters). They should be stored in a secure
location. Dispose of them by shredded, not just throwing them into the trash. Shredding can be done in
the Math Duplicating Facility.
P9. Be in class.
DO NOT cancel any classes. If you have to miss a class, complete the appropriate Absence Report and
arrange for a qualified substitute. If an emergency will cause you to miss class, quickly call Cindy
Bernlohr (235-9243 at home, or 292-0911 at OSU). If she is unavailable, contact a Vice Chair or the
Math Department front desk (292-4975) to report your absence. Possibly Cindy or a Vice Chair will be
able to arrange for a substitute.
* If you know ahead of time that you will miss more than one day of classes you teach during the
quarter, then you should not take a TA job that quarter.
You are expected to be in your office during scheduled office hours. You are also responsible for being in
the tutor room during your scheduled times there.
P10. WebCT.
Math 104, Math 148, and Math 150 use WebCT, which is an electronic grade database. The TAs will
enter Midterm grades promptly so that students can find their own grades. Lecturers have access to the
WebCT records of all students in their classes. WebCT questions may be addressed to Carmen Lefever
<lefever@math.ohio-state.edu>.
For further discussion of these policies contact:
Professor Daniel Shapiro <shapiro@math.ohio-state.edu>.
Document updated 9/2005

[[page 7]]
7
Here are two sample Grade Reports.
COURSE : MATH 130 AU 2003 Call #: 27182-8
Lecturer: Prof. Rstt Lecture:TR 8:30
TA: Mr. Tsrr Recitation:MW 9:30
First NameLast NameSocial Sec No MT 1 MT 2MT 3FinalRec Tot Grade

Marcus Aurelius 100-00-0000 0 EN 0
Benjamin Dover 100-00-0001 95 92 98 180 45 510 A
Michael Jackson 100-00-0002 65 51 38 65 18 237 E
Clark Kent 100-00-0003 88 82 78 166 38 452 B
Willy Makit 100-00-0004 72 79 81 126 48 406 C+
Alfred Newman 100-00-0005 26 42 51 77 21 217 E
Tom Terrific 100-00-0006 52 48 12 112 EN 6
Alison Wonderland100-00-0007 75 68 57 39 239 I/E
Some people believe that you should include more detail about quiz scores (which are part of the
Recitation Total). That information allows us to read off which students did not attend recitation classes.
Some courses have automatic methods of modifying midterm grades depending on performance on parts
of the Final Exam. Here is a sample of that type:
COURSE : MATH 148 AU 2003 Call #: 31415-9
Lecturer: Prof. Xyzz Lecture:TR 2:30
TA: Mr. Zyxx Recitation:MW 3:30
First NameLast NameSocial Sec No
Exam
1
Exam
2Adj E1Adj E2
Final
PT 1
Final
PT 2
Final
PT 3RecTotalGrade

Marcus Aurelius 100-00-0000 EN 0
Benjamin Dover 100-00-0001 95 9282.586 35 40 4545352 A
Michael Jackson 100-00-0002 65 5160.555.528 30 2618222.5E
Clark Kent 100-00-0003 88 82 84 83 40 42 4638337 B
Willy Makit 100-00-0004 72 84 45 48 45 3248302C+
Alfred Newman 100-00-0005 26 42 31 50 18 29 2521174 E
Tom Terrific 100-00-0006 48 52 12112EN 6
Alison Wonderland100-00-0007 75 68 39182I/E