[[page 1]]
UT SHSSW - Capstone
J. Nowicki, Spr, 2018

Page 1
The University of Texas at Austin
Steve Hicks School of Social Work

Advanced Integrative Capstone
In Social Work Knowledge and Practice

Course
Number:
385T Instructor: Jack Nowicki, LCSW-S
Unique
Number:
61430 Office Number: SWB 3.104-A
Semester: Spring, 2018 Contact
Information:
jnowickisfbt@gmail.com
512.659-1465
Meeting
Time/Place:
T 5:30 - 8:30 pm
SSW 2.130
Office Hours: T 3:30 - 4:30 pm
or by appointment

I. Course Description

Competent social work practice involves broad knowledge of person-in-environment and a full integration of social
work knowledge, skills, theory, evidence, and values and ethics and the ability to clearly articulate a rationale for
decision-making. This course gives students the opportunity to analyze and apply with greater depth, breadth, and
specificity their knowledge, skills, and theories to values and ethics, diversity, populations at risk, social and
economic justice, human behavior and the social environment, social we lfare policy, social work practice, research
and field education. Therefore, the course builds upon all previous courses in the curriculum and their field
internships utilizing a multi-level case study method and prepares students for professional practice . Case studies
will require students to intervene at all systems levels. The course will be taken concurrently with students' final
field placement (in the spring semester) to enhance reciprocal learning in class and in field.

II. Course Objectives

At the completion of this course students will be able to:
1. formulate and identify relevant social work knowledge and theory

2. demonstrate an ability to integrate their knowledge, skills, and values and ethics

3. critically analyze human behavior and social problems at all systems levels

4. critically analyze and apply to their practice research findings in the empirical literature and assess
applicability of related media sources (such as professional bulletins, documentaries, and/or other
internet sources)

5. defend practice decisions based on ethical principles and relevant data and information

6. organize and present (orally and in writing) a multi-level case analysis based on a systematic and
conceptually-driven process

7. collaborate effectively with others who may have opposing viewpoints, interpretation of information, or
agendas

8. further develop self awareness of personal strengths and challenges as a social work practitioner

9. apply their understanding of, and commitment to, the promotion of social and economic justice, and the
recognition and impact of oppression, discrimination and privilege on individuals, families, groups,
practitioners, organizations, and communities

[[page 2]]
UT SHSSW - Capstone
J. Nowicki, Spr, 2018

Page 2
Brief Description of Course Requirements
See Guidelines for Assignments & Written Work for additional details.

Case analyses
The major activity this semester involves in-depth class discussion of assorted cases. The case method of teaching
begins with the ideas that 1) working to understand and resolve challenging puzzles or problems stimulates
learning and 2) that such efforts closely resemble the assessment and decision making processes needed in
professional practice. This educational strategy is further explained in class. In addition, two required readings
briefly describe the case method and suggest ways to prepare for case discussions (Wolfer, 2006; Wolfer & Scales,
2006). The case method engages students in class discussions centered on in -depth analysis. The cases involve a
variety of problems and dilemmas at various system levels. Each case reports the actual experience of a social
work professional, sometimes one who is relatively new to the profession. There are a total of seven cases for
analysis and discussion this semester. The first case is considered a practice case and is not graded.

Peer feedback on case analyses
Another major component of this course is that students get and give feedback to each other on their case
analyses. Feedback should help students refine their written assignment. Students submit two individual feedback
summaries on two cases.

Case presentations from field
Each student will present a case from his/her current or past field placement. The presentation of case information
should be approximately 20 minutes and a group discussion afterwards is scheduled for approximately 20 minutes.
Students must prepare a brief handout with the important case elements for distribution to the class. Students
are assigned dates for their presentation based on their group assignment. All class members must be prepared to
give feedback, including asking for questions, talking about options, identifying underlying issues, and making an
assessment.

Social work inventory
This assignment requires students to reflect on and integration their graduate education as a foundation for
professional social work practice. The final product has two parts: 1) an integrative summary of your current
theoretical perspective; and 2) an articulation of how you understand and apply the social work concept, "use of
self." Together, these two components provide a broad framework for summarizing your learning. The process of
completing this assignment helps you prepare for professional practice and future development.

III. Teaching Methods

The primary teaching approach in this course is collaborative learning. Course materials are presented primarily
through decision case study and in class discussions. Small group work, readings, and lectures are incorporated.
The goal is to stimulate students' critical thinking, defensible decision-making, intellectual creativity, and sharing of
knowledge and skills the class. Students are responsible for material presented through all these activities.
Students are required to complete the assigned readings for each week and be prepared to discuss them.

IV. Course Requirements

There are four primary graded assignment categories, as listed below, along with their point values. See Section on
Description of Assignments for specific details.

Decision Case Analyses 2 cases @ 20 points each 40
Individual Peer Feedback on Decision Cases Analyses 2 @ 10 points each 20
Inventory of Social Work Practice 20 points 20
Case Presentations from Field 10 points 10
Contributions to Class Learning and Case Discussion 10 points 10
Total Points 100 points

[[page 3]]
UT SHSSW - Capstone
J. Nowicki, Spr, 2018

Page 3
V. Grading Scale

94.0 - 100 = A 74.0 - 76.999 = C
90.0 - 93.999 = A- 70.0 - 73.999 = C-
87.0 - 89.999 = B+ 67.0 - 69.999 = D+
84.0 - 86.999 = B 64.0 - 66.999 = D
80.0 - 83.999 = B- 60.0 - 63.999 = D-
77.0 - 79.999 = C+ Below 60 = F

VI. University Policies

THE UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS HONOR CODE. The core values of The University of Texas at Austin are learning, discovery,
freedom, leadership, individual opportunity, and responsibility. Each member of the university is expected to uphold
these values through integrity, honesty, trust, fairness, and respect toward peers and community.

PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT AND CIVILITY IN THE CLASSROOM. The professor expects students to act as professionals in
class. This means students should arrive on time for class, be prepared to participate in the class discussion, and show
respect for one another's opinions. A course brings together a group of diverse individuals with various backgrounds.
Students are influenced and shaped by such factors as ethnicity, gender, sex, physical abilities, religious and political
beliefs, national origins, and sexual orientations, among others. We expect to learn from each other in an atmosphere of
positive engagement and mutual respect. Social Work also deals with complex and controversial issues. These issues may
be challenging and uncomfortable, and it would be impossible to offer a substantive classroom experience that did not
include potentially difficult conversations relating to challenging issues. In this environment we will be exposed to
diverse ideas and opinions, and sometimes we will not agree with the ideas expressed by others. Nevertheless, the
professor requires that students engage one another with civility, respect, and professionalism.

UNANTICIPATED DISTRESS. Students may experience unexpected and/or distressing reactions to course readings,
videos, conversations, and assignments. If so, students are encouraged to inform the professor. The professor can be
responsive and supportive regarding students' participation in course assignments and activities, but students are
responsible for communicating clearly what kind of

POLICY ON SOCIAL MEDIA AND PROFESSIONAL COMMUNICATION. Public social networks are not private. Even when
open only to approved or invited members, users cannot be certain that privacy will exist among the general
membership of sites. If social work students choose to participate in such forums, please assume that anything posted
can be seen, read, and critiqued. What is said, posted, linked to, commented on, uploaded, subscribed to, etc., can be
accessed and archived, posing potential harm to professional reputations and prospective careers.
Social work students who use social media (i.e. Facebook, Twitter, etc.) and other forms of electronic communication
(i.e. blogs, etc.) must be mindful of how their communication may be perceived by clients, colleagues, faculty, and
others. Social work students are expected to make every effort to minimize material which could be considered
inappropriate for a professional social worker in training. Because of this, social work students are advised to manage
security settings at their most private levels and avoid posting information/photos or using any language that could
jeopardize their professional image.

Students are asked to consider the amount of personal information posted on these sites and are obliged to block any
client access to involvement in the students' social networks. Client material should not be referred to in any form of
electronic media, including any information that might lead to the identification of a client or compromise client
confidentiality in any way. Additionally, students must critically evaluate any material that is posted regarding
community agencies and professional relationships, as certain material could violate the standards set by the School of
Social Work, the Texas Code of Conduct for Social Workers, and/or the NASW Code of Ethics.
Social work students should consider that they will be representing professional social work practice as well as The
University of Texas at Austin School of Social Work program while in the classroom, the university community, and the
broader area communities.

POLICY ON SCHOLASTIC DISHONESTY. Students who violate University rules on scholastic dishonesty are subject to
disciplinary penalties, including the possibility of failure in the course and/or dismissal from the University. Since such
dishonesty harms the individual, all students, and the integrity of the University, policies on scholastic dishonesty will be

[[page 4]]
UT SHSSW - Capstone
J. Nowicki, Spr, 2018

Page 4
strictly enforced. For further information, the student may refer to the Web Site of the Student Judicial Services, Office
of the Dean of Students (http://deanofstudents.utexas.edu/sjs/).

USE OF COURSE MATERIALS. The materials used in this course, including, but not limited to exams, quizzes, and
homework assignments, are copyright protected works. Any unauthorized duplication of the course materials is a
violation of federal law and may result in disciplinary action being taken against the student. Additionally, the sharing of
course materials without the specific, express approval of the professor may be a violation of the University's Student
Honor Code and an act of academic dishonesty, which could result in further disciplinary action. This sharing includes,
among other things, uploading class materials to websites for the purpose of distributing those materials to other
current or future students.

DOCUMENTED DISABILITY STATEMENT. Any student who requires special accommodations must obtain a letter that
documents the disability from the Services for Students with Disabilities area of the Division of Diversity and Community
Engagement (471- 6259 voice or 471-4641 TTY for users who are deaf or hard of hearing). A student should present the
letter to the professor at the beginning of the semester so that needed accommodations can be discussed and followed.
The student should remind the professor of any testing accommodations no later than five business days before an
exam. For more information, visit http://ddce.utexas.edu/disability/how-to-register-with-ssd/.

RELIGIOUS HOLIDAYS. By UT Austin policy, students must notify the professor of a pending absence at least fourteen
days prior to the date of observance of a religious holy day. If the student must miss a class, examination, work
assignment, or project in order to observe a religious holy day, the professor will give the student an opportunity to
complete the missed work within a reasonable time after the absence.

TITLE IX REPORTING. In accordance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, the University of Texas at Austin
is committed to maintaining a learning environment that is free from discriminatory conduct based on gender. Faculty,
instructors, staff, and/or teaching assistants in their supervisory roles are mandated reporters of incidents of sex
discrimination, sexual harassment, sexual violence, or sexual misconduct. Students who report such incidents will be
informed of University resources. Incidents will be reported to the University's Title IX Coordinator and/or the Title IX
Deputy oft the SSW, Professor Tanya Voss. Students, faculty and staff may contact Professor Voss to report incidents or
to obtain information. Further information, including student resources related to Title IX, may also be found at
http://socialwork.otexas.edu/dl/files/academic-programs/other/qrg-sexaul harassment.pdf.

CAMPUS CARRY POLICY. The University's policy on concealed fire arms may be found here:
https://campuscarry.utexas.edu. You also may find this information by accessing the Quick Links menu on the School's
website.

CLASSROOM CONFIDENTIALITY. Information shared in class about agencies, clients, and personal matters is considered
confidential per the NASW Code of Ethics on educational supervision and is protected by regulations of the Family
Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) as well. As such, sharing this information with individuals outside of the
educational context is not permitted. Violations of confidentiality could result in actions taken according to the policies
and procedure for review of academic performance located in sections 3.0, 3.1, and 3.2 of the Standards for Social Work
Education.

USE OF E-MAIL FOR OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE TO STUDENTS. Email is recognized as an official mode of university
correspondence; therefore, students are responsible for reading their email for university and course-related
information and announcements. Students are responsible for keeping the university informed about a change of e-mail
address. Students should check their e-mail regularly and frequently-daily, but at minimum twice a week-to stay
current with university-related communications, some of which may be time-sensitive. Students can find UT Austin's
policies and instructions for updating their e-mail address at http://www.utexas.edu/its/policies/emailnotify.php.

SAFETY. As part of professional social work education, students may have assignments that involve working in agency
settings and/or the community. As such, these assignments may present some risks. Sound choices and caution may
lower risks inherent to the profession. It is the student's responsibility to be aware of and adhere to policies and
practices related to agency and/or community safety. Students should notify the professor regarding any safety
concerns.

BEHAVIOR CONCERNS ADVICE LINE (BCAL). If students are worried about someone who is acting differently, they may
use the Behavior Concerns Advice Line to discuss by phone their concerns about another individual's behavior. This

[[page 5]]
UT SHSSW - Capstone
J. Nowicki, Spr, 2018

Page 5
service is provided through a partnership between the Office of the Dean of Students, the Counseling and Mental Health
Center (CMHC), the Employee Assistance Program (EAP), and The University of Texas Police Department (UTPD).
Call 512-232-5050 or visit http://www.utexas.edu/safety/bcal.

EMERGENCY EVACUATION POLICY. Occupants of buildings on the UT Austin campus are required to evacuate and
assemble outside when a fire alarm is activated or an announcement is made. Please be aware of the following policies
regarding evacuation:
* Familiarize yourself with all exit doors in the classroom and the building. Remember that the nearest exit door
may not be the one you used when entering the building.
* If you require assistance to evacuate, inform the professor in writing during the first week of class.
* In the event of an evacuation, follow the professor's instructions.
* Do not re-enter a building unless you are given instructions by the Austin Fire Department, the UT Austin Police
Department, or the Fire Prevention Services Office.

VII. Additional Class Policies

1. Students are expected to attend ALL class meetings, to read ALL the assigned readings, and to participate
in class discussions.
2. There are no "excused" absences. Students missing two or more class sessions may receive a 10%
reduction in their overall course grade. Students missing three (3) or more class sessions may receive an
"F" for the course, at the instructor's discretion. Students should not register for this class if he/she has a
conflict with the schedule, however emergencies are understanda ble. As soon as you know that you will
not be attending class because of an emergency, please let your instructor know by email.
3. Coming to class late or leaving class early may count as an absence.
4. Assignments are to be submitted according to the schedule. Written case analyses are due electronically
to the instructor on the Monday at 12 noon CT before the case is scheduled for class discussion. No late
feedback assignments will be accepted or graded. For assignments turned in during class periods, the
assignments are due at the beginning of the class period. Assignments turned in during or after the
beginning of class are considered late and receive a ten (10%) penalty per day ( including weekend days).
The instructor may use her/his discretion.
5. Use The Publication Manual of the American Psychological Association (APA 7th Edition) as the style
manual for all assignments. Incorrect APA style may result in a deduction of points on assignments.
6. Appropriate referencing is required. Student failure to use quotation marks for direct quotes or citation
for indirect quotations and/or others ideas may result in a "0" for the paper and/or an "F" for the course.
7. All papers must be word-processed or typewritten, double-spaced, 10 - 12 point font, and 1 inch margins.
8. Any modifications, amendments, or changes to the syllabus and or assignments are the discretion of the
instructor. Changes will be announced in class. It is the responsibility of the student to inquire about any
changes that might have been made in his/her absence.
9. Instructor Teaching Notes to decision cases are available to instructors, but they are NOT to be used by
students for any purposes. The use of these notes is considered an infraction of the University policies
governing scholastic dishonesty will result in the initiation of a Level Three Student Review and may result
in the student's failure in the class or the program. In addition, it is expected that students will produce
original work for feedback and analysis. Therefore, utilizing any past ca se analyses is not acceptable.
10. Students who have difficulty with the course materials, assignments, or class activities should schedule an
appointment with the instructor as soon as possible so that, where appropriate, additional assistance can
be provided.
11. This course is part of a professional training program. The behavior that is expected of social workers in
professional practice settings is also expected of students in this course. Students are expected to arrive
at class punctually, to remain in cl ass for its duration, and to maintain focus upon course content during
class. Eating in class is permitted only during breaks. Cell phones, smart phones, and laptops must be
turned off during the duration of the class. While it is expected that course c ontent will include
examination of a diverse array of ideas and opinions, the professor does require that students engage one
another with respect and professionalism.

[[page 6]]
UT SHSSW - Capstone
J. Nowicki, Spr, 2018

Page 6
VIII. Flow Chart & Step-by-Step Process for Case Analyses and Feedback
Decision case review and analysis is the foundation of this course. This process involves both individual and group
work and written analysis and feedback. A total of seven cases will be used during the semester. The first case is an
ungraded practice case. Subsequent to the practice case, each small group writes analyses for two cases. Students
individually provide written feedback to other group members on two cases. Procedures and instructions for
completing the case analysis and feedback are included in this document. Students remain in the same small
groups throughout the semester.

Flow Chart for Analysis and Feedback Process by Day of Week 1

Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 Step 5 Step 6
Student groups
work together to
submit 1st draft of
case analysis
A draft is
submitted to each
individual
assigned to give
feedback and the
instructor

Wednesdays by
10 pm CT
Students review and
provide individual
written feedback to
the analysis group
members & send copy
to the instructor

Fridays by 12 noon
CT
Analysis groups
revise based on
feedback and
submit final copy
to the instructor

Following Monday
by 12 noon CT
Instructors
return graded
analysis to group

Case discussion
takes place in class

Tuesday at
5:30 pm

IMPORTANT: Overview of Written Procedures for Case Analysis

1. Every student individually writes a case analysis of the practice case.
2. Each student group writes an analysis for two additional cases. See the calendar for assigned cases.
3. Each group is responsible for organizing their group members in order to complete al l the tasks required
for this assignment.
4. Case analyses are submitted via Email or Canvas.
5. To receive feedback, groups must provide the first draft case analysis to their feedback group members
no later than 9 pm CT on the Wednesday before the final due date.
6. Students simultaneously send drafts to the instructor so that credit can be given.
7. Final case analyses must be completed and submitted (via e-mail or Canvas) to the instructor by 12
noon CST on the Monday before the weekly class discussion. No credit will be given for decision case
analyses submitted late.
8. Each of the five required components of the case analysis will receive a score
from 0 - 5 points.
9. When groups submit their case analysis, the file should be labeled first by the DAY the class meets, with
the course name and "analysis" two-digit case number, and your group name (e.g. WED Capstone Analysis
Case 02, Group A1).
10. This information must also appear in the subject heading of the email.
11. Include all group members' names on the written case analysis document.
12. See the instructions on writing a case analysis under Written Assignments Section XI A.

Small Group Organization - Small Groups To Be Assigned

Small Groups Small Groups Assigned Cases
Groups A A1

A2

1st case - But Someone Could Die
2nd case - I'm a Social Worker!
Groups B

B1

B2 1st case - Nowhere to Skate
2nd case - Unusual Appeal
Groups C

C1 C2 1st case - Fran's Questions
2nd case - Drowning Sorrows

1 For diagram illustrations, see Canvas files

[[page 7]]
UT SHSSW - Capstone
J. Nowicki, Spr, 2018

Page 7
IX. Guidelines for Assignments & Written Work

A. Guidelines for Written Case Analyses (2 cases X 20 points each = 40 points)

(Repeated from Page 2) The major activity this semester involves in-depth class discussion of decision cases. The
case method of teaching begins with the twin ideas that 1) working to understand and resolve challenging puzzles
or problems will stimulate learning and that 2) such efforts closely resemble the assessment and decision making
processes needed in professional practice. In addition, two required readings briefly describe the c ase method and
suggest ways to prepare for case discussions (Wolfer, 2006). The case method engages students in class
discussions centered on in-depth analysis of decision cases. The cases involve a variety of problems and dilemmas
at various system levels. Each case reports the actual experience of a social work professional, sometimes one who
is new to the profession.

Case analyses are to be written as executive summaries. Executive summaries are designed to aid decision makers
who need understanding of and advice for dealing with a problematic situation. They provide a concise analysis
and recommendation without all of the analytic detail. In fact, executive summaries often represent the first few
pages of a more comprehensive analysis. The executive summary format is not intended to be an exhaustive
analysis of all possible issues and alternate strategies but rather a concise, focused summary with the issues and
alternatives only mentioned to insure they receive consideration. Any situation, no matter ho w complex, can
generally be summarized in no more than two or three pages if reduced to its most essential elements. In your
analysis, please make sure that you are incorporating relevant evidence and theory to substantiate your
conclusions, decisions, and recommendation. Also, students must demonstrate their ability to "think like a social
worker" throughout their case analysis by incorporating thorough problem solving, attention to contextual issues,
and awareness of social justice and diversity.
There are a total of seven cases for discussion and analysis this semester. All written analyses must include the five
components in the table below. The first case is considered a practice case and is not graded . However, every
student must submit an individua l case analysis for that first practice case . Please use the headings in the table to
identify the sections. Case analyses are limited to 1,200 words. This also applies to the practice case, and to first
drafts of graded cases.

Required Components of Written Case Analyses
A. Introduction
Briefly identify the major elements (i.e., people, settings) of the case (2 - 4 sentences). Note that this section is
not graded (see the Case Analysis Evaluation Matrix below)
B. Problem Statement (See guidelines for writing problem statements in handout on Canvas)
Give a specific and concisely written formulation of the problem to guide analysis and problem-solving. Do not
use a question, but a statement of the problem. This section can usually be completed in no more than two
sentences.
C. Contextual Analysis
Summarize external issues (and sometimes internal issues) that created, sustain, or add to the problem.
Depending on the system level, these may include cultural; economic/resource; political/legal; organizational;
social and ethical issues; interpersonal relationships; and intrapsychic and biological conditions.
D. Alternative Strategies
Identify three or more possible strategies that may lead to the solution of the problem. These strategies
should be plausible, distinct and non-contingent (i.e., not interdependent). Briefly note advantages and
disadvantages of each possible solution. These strategies must be grounded in literature and practice.
E. Recommendation
Justify your preferred strategy, explaining why you selected that particular one and why it best resolves the
problem. Be sure your recommended strategy can be supported with or by resources available in the context.

Note: The first analysis is an individual assignment and the other two are group assignments.

[[page 8]]
UT SHSSW - Capstone
J. Nowicki, Spr, 2018

Page 8
In addition to providing edits and comments, professors will rate written case analyses using the following or a
similar matrix:

Case Analysis Evaluation Matrix
Problem
Formulation
Contextual
Analysis

Alternative Strategies

Recommended
Strategy
Writing Style

Accurate, clear,
specific, concise,
and useful
Effectively
addresses all
important issues
Clearly presents several
distinct and appropriate
strategies, with well-
developed advantages and
disadvantages for each
Explicitly resolves
the entire
problem with a
strategy
Clearly & concisely
describes the
analysis in a
grammatically
correct fashion

A best possible indicator of full point credit is described above.
The goal of the case analysis is to present clearly, conceptualized, defensive logic model in which the problem
statement and the major issues of the case are clearly connected to the alternative and recommended strategies .
That is, alternative and recommended strategies closely correspond to and address the identified major issues in
ways that achieve the most desired outcome(s). The contextual analysis (influences outside the case that impact
how the issues are perceived) is as equally important to articulate in the case analysis.

B. Guidelines for Providing Feedback (2 X 10 = 20 points)

Another major component of this course is students getting and giving individual feedback to each other on their
case analyses. Peer feedback helps students refine their written assignment. Students are required to submit two
individual feedback summaries on two cases. The process for submitting feedback is described in detail as follows:

1. In addition to writing case analyses, students provide individual feedback to other class members.
Providing feedback helps writers improve their case analyses and provides incentive for them to
reciprocate.
2. To provide beneficial feedback (and also participate effectively in class discussions), students must study
the cases carefully every week, including weeks when they provide feedback. Read and analyze cases
before giving feedback (i.e., develop your own judgments and conclusions).
3. To get or receive feedback for revising case analyses prior to submission, students must establish and
adhere to a system for timely transfer of draft case analyses and feedback. For example, s tudents
scheduled to write and submit case analyses must send out a draft of their case analyses to feedback group
members at 9 pm on the Wednesday before the case is to be discussed. Students providing feedback must
respond to the writers by 12 noon the following Friday.
4. For evaluation purposes, each of the five components will receive a score from 0 - 2 points (10 points).
5. Feedback provided by instructors during the initial weeks of the course will serve as a model for students
to follow. Students may also use the evaluation matrix above for providing feedback.
6. Students utilize e-mail for the transmission of analysis drafts and feedback. This can be accomplished by
attaching documents to e-mail.
7. When group members provide feedback, they send the feedback to both the analysis group and the
instructor (for grading).
8. Both case analysis drafts and feedback must be sent by the above deadlines.
9. Late feedback may receive no credit.
10. Students must use the five elements below to organize their feedback to the ana lysis group in a Word
document.
11. Do not only send a track changes document as feedback. However, a track changes document may be
submitted as a supplement to give editorial suggestions.

[[page 9]]
UT SHSSW - Capstone
J. Nowicki, Spr, 2018

Page 9
Beneficial feedback papers should be organized and comment on these five elements:

Required Components of Feedback

A. Identify the strengths and weakness of the analysis.
B. Include information regarding gaps that authors may have overlooked and creditability/relevance of the
literature and research cited.
C. Include concrete, usable suggestions (avoid general statements about quality) for improving the analysis
D. Make suggestions about the content and flow of the analysis: Does it make sense? Is the problem formulation
accurate and helpful? Are the internal and external issues adequately addressed? Has the author considered
an adequate range of strategies? Does the recommendation fit the original problem formulation? Does it
seem reasonable?
E. Offer general assistance about readability and precise writing (e.g., grammar, spelling, sentence structure).

C. Guidelines for Social Work Inventory (20 points)

This paper focuses on the student's:
* Social work knowledge, theories, skills, and approaches that inform the student's practice approach (cite
professional literature)
* "Use of self" in their social work practice (cite professional literature)
* Experience (and/or lack thereof) with diversity and social justice issues and practice
* Self-assessed strengths and limitations in their social work practice
* Plan for professional self-care and their anticipated continuing development

The paper is intended to aid students' transition from graduate school to advanced social work practice. This
assignment requires reflection on and integration of students' graduate education as a basis for professional social
work practice. The final product has two parts: 1) an integrative summary of your current theoretical perspective,
and 2) an articulation of how you understand and apply the social work concept, " professional use of self."
Together, these two components provide a broad framework for summarizing your learning. The process of
completing this assignment will help you prepare for professional practice and future development.

Part I: Theoretical Framework or Practice Models. Discuss the theoretical frameworks or practice models that you
have learned over the course of the MSSW program that will guide your social work practice. This should be a
framework that is specific to your practice that you have internalized and constructed as a result of learn ing,
critically thinking about, and applying knowledge in your MSSW program, or that you plan to apply. Do not limit
yourself to one theory or model; rather integrate various theories from the social work knowledge base into your
unique framework. Cite sources for the various theories you incorporate. For example, suppose one of the theories
that you have incorporated into your framework for practice is "cognitive behavioral theory" or "sustainable
development model." When you identify this theory or model as being a part of your practice framework, cite the
sources that have contributed to the development or application of this perspective.

Part II: Professional Use of Self: Define what is meant by "the professional use of self," and describe in depth ho w
the insights you have gained in graduate school about this concept will be incorporated into your practice
model. In your answer, 1) present examples of how your skills and experiences have been utilized productively in
your work. 2) Provide examples of your challenges and personal growth areas that can bolster or potentially
hinder your effectiveness in social work. Discuss how you will address these challenges. 3) Discuss what issues
pertaining to social justice and diversity have been challenges for you, and what you have learned about working
with people different from yourself. 4) Discuss which work situations (with colleagues, clients, community, etc.)
you anticipate could be sources of stress for you in professional practice, and describe how you will address these
stressors.

[[page 10]]
UT SHSSW - Capstone
J. Nowicki, Spr, 2018

Page 10
Part III: Further Learning: When you think of the knowledge and skills you've learned in the graduate school, what
are your current strengths and challenges in social work practice? What future learning do you intend to pursue?
What knowledge and skills do you need to develop further to achieve competence in your professional practice?
What are your thoughts about planning for self-care and your continued professional development?

The inventory is to be double-spaced and word-processed, with a reference list for literature cited in the paper. It
should be APA style. Heading and subheadings can be used to denote the above components of your inventory.
The paper is required to be at least eight pages long.

The following criteria will be used to evaluate the inventory:
* Demonstrated ability to integrate social work theories and models, knowledge, skills, and values into a
holistic perspective for social work practice
* Thoroughness in addressing all components of this assignment
* Specificity of discussion and analysis
* Depth of discussion and analysis
* Professional writing skills

D. Guidelines for Case Presentations from Field (10 points)

Assignment Details: For this assignment, students present a case from their internship. Cases presented may
involve complex clinical, administrative, and or ethical issues. Students are expected to present the case in a
professional manner similar to that used in case conferences/staffing/group supervision in agency settings.
Students should be prepared to facilitate a discussion with the class about the issues of concern in the case. A
maximum of 40 minutes is allotted for each case presentation.

Students must prepare a one page written summary of the case to distribute at the time of the presentation.
Guidelines for presentation of case and handout include:

1. Brief description of the case situation
2. Key issues/problems
3. Relevant agency/organizational issues
4. Description of student's role in this situation and/or professional use of self
5. Student's critical thinking of the problem or issue and its possible resolution
6. Develop at least two prompt questions that you would like addressed by your peers that will help
you with this situation.

E. Contribution to Class Learning and Case Discussion (10 points)

Your contribution to the success of this course is essential. Hence, students are expected to actively contribute to
the class discussions and learning in and outside the classrooms and will be evaluated according the criteria listed
below. Students also may be asked to assess themselves (using self-anchored scales), peers, or group members to
inform the evaluation in this area, per the instructor's discretion.

* Preparation - Student is prepared for class by reading cases and researching case related issues
* Quality of Participation - Student contributes in a meaningful way to course discussions and small group
activities. P articipation in course discussions advance s the depth of course learning . Student responses
demonstrate competency in synthesizing and analyzing course content as well as knowledge in a specific
area (or willingness to learn and ask critical question)
* Frequency of Participation - Student actively participates in class discussions.

[[page 11]]
UT SHSSW - Capstone
J. Nowicki, Spr, 2018

Page 11
X. Course Schedule with Case Discussion & Other Assignments

Date

Analysis Group
Sends 1st Draft to
Students Assigned
to Give Feedback
and Instructor
Student Feedback
Sent to the Analysis
Group Members
and Instructor
Analysis Group
Sends Final Written
Case to Instructor
Case Discussion and other
Assignments
Jan 15-19
Class 1
1-16

Class 1: Syllabus Review;
Introduction of Practice
Case
Jan 22-26
Class 2
1-23

Class 2: Analysis of Practice
Case:
Larry Steele's Group
INDIVIDUAL CASE ANALYSIS
DUE Jan. 23
Jan 29-Feb 2
Class 3
1-30

Wed, 10 pm
Jan. 31

A1 to B1
A2 to B2
Fri, 12 noon
Feb.2

B1 to A1
B2 to A2
Class 3: Field Presentations
C1

Feb 5-9
Class 4
2-6

Mon, 12 Noon
Feb 5

A1 and A2
Class 4: Case Discussion:
But Someone Could Die

Feb 12-16
Class 5
2-13

Wed, 10 pm
Feb 14

C1 to A1
C2 to A2
Fri, 12 noon
Feb 16

A1 to C1
A2 to C2
Class 5:
Field Presentations B1
Feb 19-23
Class 6
2-20

Mon, 12 Noon
Feb 19

C1 and C2
Class 6: Case Discussion:
Fran's Questions

Feb 26-Mar 2
Class 7
2-27

Wed, 10 pm
Feb. 28

B1 to C1
B2 to C2
Fri, 12 noon
Mar 2

C1 to B1
C2 to B2
Class 7:
Field Presentations A1
Mar 5-9
Class 8
3-6
Mon, 12 Noon
March 5

B1 and B2
Class 8: Case Discussion:
Nowhere to Skate

Mar 12-16

Spring Break
Mar 19-23
Class 9
3-20

Wed, 10 pm
March 21

C1 to A2
C2 to A1
Fri, 12 noon
March 23

A2 to C1
A1 to C2
Class 9:
Field Presentations B2
Mar 26-30
Class 10
3-27

Mon, 12 noon
March 26

C1 and C2
Class 10: Case Discussion:
Drowning Sorrows

[[page 12]]
UT SHSSW - Capstone
J. Nowicki, Spr, 2018

Page 12
Apr 2-6
Class 11
4-3

Wed, 10 pm
April 4

B1 to C2
B2 to C1
Fri, 12 noon
April 6

C2 to B1
C1 to B2
Class 11:
Field Presentations A2

Apr 9-13
Class 12
4-10

Mon, 12 noon
April 9

B1 and B2
Class 12: Case Discussion:
Unusual Appeal

Apr 16-20
Class 13
4-17

Wed, 10 pm
April 18

A1 to B2
A2 to B1
Fri, 12 noon
April 20

B2 to A1
B1 to A2
Class 13:
Field Presentations C2

Apr 23-27
Class 14
4-24

Mon, 12 noon
April 23

A1 and A2
Class 14: Case Discussion:
I'm a Social Worker

Apr 30-May 4
Class 15
5-1

Class 15:
Course Evaluations
Social Work Inventory Due

XI. Course Readings, Organization, & Due Dates

Week of January 15-19
* Introduction of Practice Case: Larry Steele's Group
* Introductions, course overview, and syllabus
Required Readings: complete for next week:
* Wolfer, T. A. (2005). An introduction to decision cases and case method learning. In T. A. Wolfer & T. L. Scales
(Eds.), Decision cases for advanced social work practice: Thinking like a social worker (pp. 3-16). Pacific Grove, CA:
Brooks/Cole Thomson Learning.
* Wolfer, T. A. & Scales, L. T. (2005). Tips for discussing decision cases. In T. A. Wolfer & T. L. Scales (Eds.), Decision
cases for advanced social work practice: Thinking like a social worker (pp. 17-25). Pacific Grove, CA: Brooks/Cole
Thomson Learning.
* Gambrill, E. (1997). A problem-focused model based on critical inquiry. In Social work practice: A critical thinker's
guide (pp. 96-124). New York: Oxford University Press.

Week of January 22-26
* Individual Case Analyses Due on Practice Case
* Class analysis of case: Larry Steele's Group
Required Readings: complete for next week:
* Congress, E. P. (2000). What social workers should know about ethics: Understanding and resolving practice
dilemmas. Advances in Social Work, 1, 1-22
* McMillen, J. C., Morris, L., & Sherraden, M. (2004). Ending social work's grudge match: Problems versus strengths.
Families in Society: The Journal of Contemporary Social Services, 85(3), 317-325.
Optional Readings: (can be spread throughout the semester)
* Miley, K.K., O'Melia, M., & DuBois, B. L. (1995). The ecosystems perspective. In Generalist social work practice: An
empowering approach. Boston: Allyn and Bacon.
* Rubin, A. (2006). What is (and is not) evidence based practice? NASW Texas Network.
* Ratliff, N. (2988). Stress and burnout in the helping professions. Social Casework: The Journal of Contemporary
Social Work, pp. 147 - 154.
* Borys, D. Nonsexual dual relationships. Innovations in Clinical Practice: A Source Book, 11.

Week of Jan 29-Feb. 2
* Field Presentations Group C1

[[page 13]]
UT SHSSW - Capstone
J. Nowicki, Spr, 2018

Page 13
Week of February 5-9
* Case Discussion: But Someone Could Die

Week of February 12-16
* Field Presentations Group B1

Week of February 19-23
* Case Discussion: Fran's Questions

Week of Feb 26 - March 2
* Field Presentations Group A1

Week March 5-9
* Case Discussion: Nowhere to Skate

Week of March 12-16
* ~~~ SPRING BREAK ~~~

Week of March 19-23
* Field Presentations Group B2
Required Reading for Next Week:
* Cherniss, C. (1995). The first year: "I thought I'd died and gone to hell." In Beyond burnout: Helping teachers,
nurses, therapists, and lawyers recover from stress and disillusionment (pp. 17-36). New York: Routledge.

Week of March 26-30
* Case Discussion: Drowning Sorrows

Week of April 2-6
* Field Presentations Group A2
Required Reading for Next Week:
* Hardcastle, D. A., Wenocur, S., & Powers, P. R. (1997). Using self in community practice: Assertiveness. In
Community Practice: Theories and Skills for Social Workers. New York: Oxford University Press.

Week of April 9-13
* Case Discussion: Unusual Appeal

Week April 16-20
* Field Presentations Group C2
Required Reading:
* Levy, C. S. (1976). Personal versus professional values: The practitioner's dilemmas. Clinical Social Work Journal, 4(2),
110-120.

Week of April 23-27
* Case Discussion: I'm a Social Worker

Week of April 30-May 4
Conclusion: Change in identity status: Student to Professional.
* Course evaluation and summary
* Social Work Inventory Due